As Passed by the House 133rd General Assembly Regular Session 2019-2020 H. B. No. 1 Representatives Plummer, Hicks-Hudson Cosponsors: Representatives Leland, Crossman, Galonski, Rogers, Smith, T., West, Blair, Blessing, Boggs, Boyd, Brent, Brown, Callender, Clites, Crawley, Cross, Denson, Ghanbari, Green, Greenspan, Holmes, A., Howse, Ingram, Lang, Lepore-Hagan, Liston, Miller, A., Miller, J., Miranda, O Brien, Oelslager, Perales, Russo, Ryan, Seitz, Sheehy, Skindell, Smith, K., Smith, R., Sobecki, Strahorn, Sykes, Upchurch, Weinstein A   BILL To amend sections 2951.041, 2953.31, and 2953.32 of the Revised Code to modify the requirements for intervention in lieu of conviction and for sealing records of conviction. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF OHIO: Section 1. That sections 2951.041, 2953.31, and 2953.32 of the Revised Code be amended to read as follows: Sec. 2951.041. (A)(1) If an offender is charged with a criminal offense, including but not limited to a violation of section 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.11, 2913.21, 2913.31, or 2919.21 of the Revised Code, and the court has reason to believe that drug or alcohol usage by the offender was a factor leading to the criminal offense with which the offender is charged or that, at the time of committing that offense, the offender had a mental illness, was a person with an intellectual disability, or was a victim of a violation of section 2905.32 or 2907.21 of the H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 2 Revised Code and that the mental illness, status as a person with an intellectual disability, or fact that the offender was a victim of a violation of section 2905.32 or 2907.21 of the Revised Code was a factor leading to the offender s criminal behavior, the court may accept, prior to the entry of a guilty plea, the offender s request for intervention in lieu of conviction. The request shall include a statement from the offender as to whether the offender is alleging that drug or alcohol usage by the offender was a factor leading to the criminal offense with which the offender is charged or is alleging that, at the time of committing that offense, the offender had a mental illness, was a person with an intellectual disability, or was a victim of a violation of section 2905.32 or 2907.21 of the Revised Code and that the mental illness, status as a person with an intellectual disability, or fact that the offender was a victim of a violation of section 2905.32 or 2907.21 of the Revised Code was a factor leading to the criminal offense with which the offender is charged. The request also shall include a waiver of the defendant s right to a speedy trial, the preliminary hearing, the time period within which the grand jury may consider an indictment against the offender, and arraignment, unless the hearing, indictment, or arraignment has already occurred. The Unless an offender alleges that drug or alcohol usage by the offender was a factor leading to the criminal offense with which the offender is charged, the court may reject an offender s request without a hearing. If the court elects to consider an offender s request or the offender alleges that drug or alcohol usage by the offender was a factor leading to the criminal offense with which the offender is charged, the court shall conduct a hearing to determine whether the offender is eligible under this section for intervention in lieu of conviction and shall stay all criminal proceedings pending the H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 3 outcome of the hearing. If the court schedules a hearing, the court shall order an assessment of the offender for the purpose of determining the offender s program eligibility for intervention in lieu of conviction and recommending an appropriate intervention plan. If the offender alleges that drug or alcohol usage by the offender was a factor leading to the criminal offense with which the offender is charged, the court may order that the offender be assessed by a community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed professional for the purpose of determining the offender s program eligibility for intervention in lieu of conviction and recommending an appropriate intervention plan. The community addiction services provider or the properly credentialed professional shall provide a written assessment of the offender to the court. (2) The victim notification provisions of division (C) of section 2930.06 of the Revised Code apply in relation to any hearing held under division (A)(1) of this section. (B) An offender is eligible for intervention in lieu of conviction if the court finds all of the following: (1) The offender previously has not been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any felony offense of violence. (2) The offense is not a felony of the first, second, or third degree, is not an offense of violence,   is not a felony sex offense, is not a violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2903.06 of the Revised Code, is not a violation of division (A) (1) of section 2903.08 of the Revised Code, is not a violation of division (A) of section 4511.19 of the Revised Code or a municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to that H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 4 division, and is not an offense for which a sentencing court is required to impose a mandatory prison term. (3) The offender is not charged with a violation of section 2925.02, 2925.04, or 2925.06 of the Revised Code, is not charged with a violation of section 2925.03 of the Revised Code that is a felony of the first, second, third, or fourth degree, and is not charged with a violation of section 2925.11 of the Revised Code that is a felony of the first or second degree. (4) If an offender alleges that drug or alcohol usage by the offender was a factor leading to the criminal offense with which the offender is charged, the court has ordered that the offender be assessed by a community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed professional for the purpose of determining the offender s program eligibility for intervention in lieu of conviction and recommending an appropriate intervention plan, the offender has been assessed by a community addiction services provider of that nature or a properly credentialed professional in accordance with the court s order, and the community addiction services provider or properly credentialed professional has filed the written assessment of the offender with the court. (5) If an offender alleges that, at the time of committing the criminal offense with which the offender is charged, the offender had a mental illness, was a person with an intellectual disability, or was a victim of a violation of section 2905.32 or 2907.21 of the Revised Code and that the mental illness, status as a person with an intellectual disability, or fact that the offender was a victim of a violation of section 2905.32 or 2907.21 of the Revised Code was a factor leading to that offense, the offender has been assessed by a psychiatrist, H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 5 psychologist, independent social worker, licensed professional clinical counselor, or independent marriage and family therapist for the purpose of determining the offender s program eligibility for intervention in lieu of conviction and recommending an appropriate intervention plan. (6) The offender s drug usage, alcohol usage, mental illness, or intellectual disability, or the fact that the offender was a victim of a violation of section 2905.32 or 2907.21 of the Revised Code, whichever is applicable, was a factor leading to the criminal offense with which the offender is charged, intervention in lieu of conviction would not demean the seriousness of the offense, and intervention would substantially reduce the likelihood of any future criminal activity. (7) The alleged victim of the offense was not sixty-five years of age or older, permanently and totally disabled, under thirteen years of age, or a peace officer engaged in the officer s official duties at the time of the alleged offense. (8) If the offender is charged with a violation of section 2925.24 of the Revised Code, the alleged violation did not result in physical harm to any person. (9) The offender is willing to comply with all terms and conditions imposed by the court pursuant to division (D) of this section. (10) The offender is not charged with an offense that would result in the offender being disqualified under Chapter 4506. of the Revised Code from operating a commercial motor vehicle or would subject the offender to any other sanction under that chapter. H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 6 (C) At the conclusion of a hearing held pursuant to division (A) of this section, the court shall enter its determination as to determine whether the offender will be granted intervention in lieu of conviction. In making this determination, the court shall presume that intervention in lieu of conviction is appropriate. If the court finds under this division and division (B) of this section that the offender is eligible for intervention in lieu of conviction and grants the offender s request, the court shall grant the offender s request unless the court finds specific reasons to believe that the candidate s participation in intervention in lieu of conviction would be inappropriate. If the court denies an eligible offender s request for intervention in lieu of conviction, the court shall state the reasons for the denial, with particularity, in a written entry. If the court grants the offender s request, the court shall accept the offender s plea of guilty and waiver of the defendant s right to a speedy trial, the preliminary hearing, the time period within which the grand jury may consider an indictment against the offender, and arraignment, unless the hearing, indictment, or arraignment has already occurred. In addition, the court then may stay all criminal proceedings and order the offender to comply with all terms and conditions imposed by the court pursuant to division (D) of this section. If the court finds that the offender is not eligible or does not grant the offender s request, the criminal proceedings against the offender shall proceed as if the offender s request for intervention in lieu of conviction had not been made. (D) If the court grants an offender s request for intervention in lieu of conviction, the court shall place the H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 7 offender under the general control and supervision of the county probation department, the adult parole authority, or another appropriate local probation or court services agency, if one exists, as if the offender was subject to a community control sanction imposed under section 2929.15, 2929.18, or 2929.25 of the Revised Code. The court shall establish an intervention plan for the offender. The terms and conditions of the intervention plan shall require the offender, for at least one year, but not more than five years, from the date on which the court grants the order of intervention in lieu of conviction, to abstain from the use of illegal drugs and alcohol, to participate in treatment and recovery support services, and to submit to regular random testing for drug and alcohol use and may include any other treatment terms and conditions, or terms and conditions similar to community control sanctions, which may include community service or restitution, that are ordered by the court. (E) If the court grants an offender s request for intervention in lieu of conviction and the court finds that the offender has successfully completed the intervention plan for the offender, including the requirement that the offender abstain from using illegal drugs and alcohol for a period of at least one year, but not more than five years, from the date on which the court granted the order of intervention in lieu of conviction, the requirement that the offender participate in treatment and recovery support services, and all other terms and conditions ordered by the court, the court shall dismiss the proceedings against the offender. Successful completion of the intervention plan and period of abstinence under this section shall be without adjudication of guilt and is not a criminal conviction for purposes of any disqualification or disability H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 8 imposed by law and upon conviction of a crime, and the court may order the sealing of records related to the offense in question in the manner provided in sections 2953.31 to 2953.36 of the Revised Code. (F) If the court grants an offender s request for intervention in lieu of conviction and the offender fails to comply with any term or condition imposed as part of the intervention plan for the offender, the supervising authority for the offender promptly shall advise the court of this failure, and the court shall hold a hearing to determine whether the offender failed to comply with any term or condition imposed as part of the plan. If the court determines that the offender has failed to comply with any of those terms and conditions, it may continue the offender on intervention in lieu of conviction, continue the offender on intervention in lieu of conviction with additional terms, conditions, and sanctions, or enter a finding of guilty and impose an appropriate sanction under Chapter 2929. of the Revised Code. If the court sentences the offender to a prison term, the court, after consulting with the department of rehabilitation and correction regarding the availability of services, may order continued court-supervised activity and treatment of the offender during the prison term and, upon consideration of reports received from the department concerning the offender s progress in the program of activity and treatment, may consider judicial release under section 2929.20 of the Revised Code. (G) As used in this section: (1)  Community addiction services provider  has the same meaning as in section 5119.01 of the Revised Code. (2)  Community control sanction  has the same meaning as H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 9 in section 2929.01 of the Revised Code. (3)  Intervention in lieu of conviction  means any court- supervised activity that complies with this section. (4)  Intellectual disability  has the same meaning as in section 5123.01 of the Revised Code. (5)  Peace officer  has the same meaning as in section 2935.01 of the Revised Code. (6)  Mental illness  and  psychiatrist  have the same meanings as in section 5122.01 of the Revised Code. (7)  Psychologist  has the same meaning as in section 4732.01 of the Revised Code. (8)  Felony sex offense  means a violation of a section contained in Chapter 2907. of the Revised Code that is a felony. Sec. 2953.31. As used in sections 2953.31 to 2953.36 of the Revised Code: (A)(1)  Eligible offender  means either of the following: (a) Anyone who has been convicted of one or more offenses, but not more than five felonies, in this state or any other jurisdiction, if all of the offenses in this state are felonies of the fourth or fifth degree or misdemeanors and none of those offenses are an offense of violence or a felony sex offense and all of the offenses in another jurisdiction, if committed in this state, would be felonies of the fourth or fifth degree or misdemeanors and none of those offenses would be an offense of violence or a felony sex offense; (b) Anyone who has been convicted of an offense in this state or any other jurisdiction, to whom division (A)(1)(a) of H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 10 this section does not apply, and who has not more than one two felony conviction convictions, not more than two four misdemeanor convictions, or not more than one two felony conviction convictions and one two misdemeanor conviction convictions in this state or any other jurisdiction. The conviction that is requested to be sealed shall be a conviction that is eligible for sealing as provided in section 2953.36 of the Revised Code. When two or more convictions result from or are connected with the same act or result from offenses committed at the same time, they shall be counted as one conviction. When two or three convictions result from the same indictment, information, or complaint, from the same plea of guilty, or from the same official proceeding, and result from related criminal acts that were committed within a three-month period but do not result from the same act or from offenses committed at the same time, they shall be counted as one conviction, provided that a court may decide as provided in division (C)(1)(a) of section 2953.32 of the Revised Code that it is not in the public interest for the two or three convictions to be counted as one conviction. (2) For purposes of, and except as otherwise provided in, division (A)(1)(b) of this section, a conviction for a minor misdemeanor, for a violation of any section in Chapter 4507., 4510., 4511., 4513., or 4549. of the Revised Code, or for a violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to any section in those chapters is not a conviction. However, a conviction for a violation of section 4511.19, 4511.251, 4549.02, 4549.021, 4549.03, 4549.042, or 4549.62 or sections 4549.41 to 4549.46 of the Revised Code, for a violation of section 4510.11 or 4510.14 of the Revised Code that is based upon the offender s operation of a vehicle during a suspension H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 11 imposed under section 4511.191 or 4511.196 of the Revised Code, for a violation of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, for a felony violation of Title XLV of the Revised Code, or for a violation of a substantially equivalent former law of this state or former municipal ordinance shall be considered a conviction. (B)  Prosecutor  means the county prosecuting attorney, city director of law, village solicitor, or similar chief legal officer, who has the authority to prosecute a criminal case in the court in which the case is filed. (C)  Bail forfeiture  means the forfeiture of bail by a defendant who is arrested for the commission of a misdemeanor, other than a defendant in a traffic case as defined in Traffic Rule 2, if the forfeiture is pursuant to an agreement with the court and prosecutor in the case. (D)  Official records  has the same meaning as in division (D) of section 2953.51 of the Revised Code. (E)  Official proceeding  has the same meaning as in section 2921.01 of the Revised Code. (F)  Community control sanction  has the same meaning as in section 2929.01 of the Revised Code. (G)  Post-release control  and  post-release control sanction  have the same meanings as in section 2967.01 of the Revised Code. Revised Code. (H)  DNA database,   DNA record,  and  law enforcement agency  have the same meanings as in section 109.573 of the (I)  Fingerprints filed for record  means any fingerprints H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 12 obtained by the superintendent of the bureau of criminal identification and investigation pursuant to sections 109.57 and 109.571 of the Revised Code. Sec. 2953.32. (A)(1) Except as provided in section 2953.61 of the Revised Code, an eligible offender may apply to the sentencing court if convicted in this state, or to a court of common pleas if convicted in another state or in a federal court, for the sealing of the record of the case that pertains to the conviction, except for convictions listed under section 2953.36 of the Revised Code. Application may be made at one of the following times: (a) At the expiration of three years after the offender s final discharge if convicted of one a felony of the third degree; (b) When division (A)(1)(a) of section 2953.31 of the Revised Code applies to the offender, at the expiration of four years after the offender s final discharge if convicted of two felonies, or at the expiration of five years after final discharge if convicted of three, four, or five felonies; (c) At the expiration of one year after the offender s final discharge if convicted of a felony of the fourth or fifth degree or a misdemeanor. (2) Any person who has been arrested for any misdemeanor offense and who has effected a bail forfeiture for the offense charged may apply to the court in which the misdemeanor criminal case was pending when bail was forfeited for the sealing of the record of the case that pertains to the charge. Except as provided in section 2953.61 of the Revised Code, the application may be filed at any time after the expiration of one year from H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 13 the date on which the bail forfeiture was entered upon the minutes of the court or the journal, whichever entry occurs first. (B) Upon the filing of an application under this section, the court shall set a date for a hearing and shall notify the prosecutor for the case of the hearing on the application. The prosecutor may object to the granting of the application by filing an objection with the court prior to the date set for the hearing. The prosecutor shall specify in the objection the reasons for believing a denial of the application is justified. The court shall direct its regular probation officer, a state probation officer, or the department of probation of the county in which the applicant resides to make inquiries and written reports as the court requires concerning the applicant. The probation officer or county department of probation that the court directs to make inquiries concerning the applicant shall determine whether or not the applicant was fingerprinted at the time of arrest or under section 109.60 of the Revised Code. If the applicant was so fingerprinted, the probation officer or county department of probation shall include with the written report a record of the applicant s fingerprints. If the applicant was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of section 2919.21 of the Revised Code, the probation officer or county department of probation that the court directed to make inquiries concerning the applicant shall contact the child support enforcement agency enforcing the applicant s obligations under the child support order to inquire about the offender s compliance with the child support order. (C)(1) The court shall do each of the following: (a) Determine whether the applicant is an eligible H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 14 offender or whether the forfeiture of bail was agreed to by the applicant and the prosecutor in the case. If the applicant applies as an eligible offender pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section and has two or three convictions that result from the same indictment, information, or complaint, from the same plea of guilty, or from the same official proceeding, and result from related criminal acts that were committed within a three- month period but do not result from the same act or from offenses committed at the same time, in making its determination under this division, the court initially shall determine whether it is not in the public interest for the two or three convictions to be counted as one conviction. If the court determines that it is not in the public interest for the two or three convictions to be counted as one conviction, the court shall determine that the applicant is not an eligible offender; if the court does not make that determination, the court shall determine that the offender is an eligible offender. (b) Determine whether criminal proceedings are pending against the applicant; (c) If the applicant is an eligible offender who applies pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section, determine whether the applicant has been rehabilitated to the satisfaction of the court; objection; (d) If the prosecutor has filed an objection in accordance with division (B) of this section, consider the reasons against granting the application specified by the prosecutor in the (e) Weigh the interests of the applicant in having the records pertaining to the applicant s conviction or bail forfeiture sealed against the legitimate needs, if any, of the H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 15 government to maintain those records. (2) If the court determines, after complying with division (C)(1) of this section, that the applicant is an eligible offender or the subject of a bail forfeiture, that no criminal proceeding is pending against the applicant, that the interests of the applicant in having the records pertaining to the applicant s conviction or bail forfeiture sealed are not outweighed by any legitimate governmental needs to maintain those records, and that the rehabilitation of an applicant who is an eligible offender applying pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section has been attained to the satisfaction of the court, the court, except as provided in division (C)(4), (G), (H), or (I) of this section, shall order all official records of the case that pertain to the conviction or bail forfeiture sealed and, except as provided in division (F) of this section, all index references to the case that pertain to the conviction or bail forfeiture deleted and, in the case of bail forfeitures, shall dismiss the charges in the case. The proceedings in the case that pertain to the conviction or bail forfeiture shall be considered not to have occurred and the conviction or bail forfeiture of the person who is the subject of the proceedings shall be sealed, except that upon conviction of a subsequent offense, the sealed record of prior conviction or bail forfeiture may be considered by the court in determining the sentence or other appropriate disposition, including the relief provided for in sections 2953.31 to 2953.33 of the Revised Code. (3) An applicant may request the sealing of the records of more than one case in a single application under this section. Upon the filing of an application under this section, the applicant, unless indigent, shall pay a fee of fifty dollars, regardless of the number of records the application requests to H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 16 have sealed. The court shall pay thirty dollars of the fee into the state treasury. It shall pay twenty dollars of the fee into the county general revenue fund if the sealed conviction or bail forfeiture was pursuant to a state statute, or into the general revenue fund of the municipal corporation involved if the sealed conviction or bail forfeiture was pursuant to a municipal ordinance. (4) If the court orders the official records pertaining to the case sealed, the court shall do one of the following: (a) If the applicant was fingerprinted at the time of arrest or under section 109.60 of the Revised Code and the record of the applicant s fingerprints was provided to the court under division (B) of this section, forward a copy of the sealing order and the record of the applicant s fingerprints to the bureau of criminal identification and investigation. (b) If the applicant was not fingerprinted at the time of arrest or under section 109.60 of the Revised Code, or the record of the applicant s fingerprints was not provided to the court under division (B) of this section, but fingerprinting was required for the offense, order the applicant to appear before a sheriff to have the applicant s fingerprints taken according to the fingerprint system of identification on the forms furnished by the superintendent of the bureau of criminal identification and investigation. The sheriff shall forward the applicant s fingerprints to the court. The court shall forward the applicant s fingerprints and a copy of the sealing order to the bureau of criminal identification and investigation. Failure of the court to order fingerprints at the time of sealing does not constitute a reversible error. H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 17 (D) Inspection of the sealed records included in the order may be made only by the following persons or for the following purposes: (1) By a law enforcement officer or prosecutor, or the assistants of either, to determine whether the nature and character of the offense with which a person is to be charged would be affected by virtue of the person s previously having been convicted of a crime; (2) By the parole or probation officer of the person who is the subject of the records, for the exclusive use of the officer in supervising the person while on parole or under a community control sanction or a post-release control sanction, and in making inquiries and written reports as requested by the court or adult parole authority; (3) Upon application by the person who is the subject of the records, by the persons named in the application; (4) By a law enforcement officer who was involved in the case, for use in the officer s defense of a civil action arising out of the officer s involvement in that case; (5) By a prosecuting attorney or the prosecuting attorney s assistants, to determine a defendant s eligibility to enter a pre-trial diversion program established pursuant to section 2935.36 of the Revised Code; (6) By any law enforcement agency or any authorized employee of a law enforcement agency or by the department of rehabilitation and correction or department of youth services as part of a background investigation of a person who applies for employment with the agency or with the department; (7) By any law enforcement agency or any authorized H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 18 employee of a law enforcement agency, for the purposes set forth in, and in the manner provided in, section 2953.321 of the Revised Code; (8) By the bureau of criminal identification and investigation or any authorized employee of the bureau for the purpose of providing information to a board or person pursuant to division (F) or (G) of section 109.57 of the Revised Code; (9) By the bureau of criminal identification and investigation or any authorized employee of the bureau for the purpose of performing a criminal history records check on a person to whom a certificate as prescribed in section 109.77 of the Revised Code is to be awarded; (10) By the bureau of criminal identification and investigation or any authorized employee of the bureau for the purpose of conducting a criminal records check of an individual pursuant to division (B) of section 109.572 of the Revised Code that was requested pursuant to any of the sections identified in division (B)(1) of that section; (11) By the bureau of criminal identification and investigation, an authorized employee of the bureau, a sheriff, or an authorized employee of a sheriff in connection with a criminal records check described in section 311.41 of the Revised Code; (12) By the attorney general or an authorized employee of the attorney general or a court for purposes of determining a person s classification pursuant to Chapter 2950. of the Revised Code; (13) By a court, the registrar of motor vehicles, a prosecuting attorney or the prosecuting attorney s assistants, H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 19 or a law enforcement officer for the purpose of assessing points against a person under section 4510.036 of the Revised Code or for taking action with regard to points assessed. When the nature and character of the offense with which a person is to be charged would be affected by the information, it may be used for the purpose of charging the person with an offense. (E) In any criminal proceeding, proof of any otherwise admissible prior conviction may be introduced and proved, notwithstanding the fact that for any such prior conviction an order of sealing previously was issued pursuant to sections 2953.31 to 2953.36 of the Revised Code. (F) The person or governmental agency, office, or department that maintains sealed records pertaining to convictions or bail forfeitures that have been sealed pursuant to this section may maintain a manual or computerized index to the sealed records. The index shall contain only the name of, and alphanumeric identifiers that relate to, the persons who are the subject of the sealed records, the word  sealed,  and the name of the person, agency, office, or department that has custody of the sealed records, and shall not contain the name of the crime committed. The index shall be made available by the person who has custody of the sealed records only for the purposes set forth in divisions (C), (D), and (E) of this section. (G) Notwithstanding any provision of this section or section 2953.33 of the Revised Code that requires otherwise, a board of education of a city, local, exempted village, or joint vocational school district that maintains records of an individual who has been permanently excluded under sections H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 20 3301.121 and 3313.662 of the Revised Code is permitted to maintain records regarding a conviction that was used as the basis for the individual s permanent exclusion, regardless of a court order to seal the record. An order issued under this section to seal the record of a conviction does not revoke the adjudication order of the superintendent of public instruction to permanently exclude the individual who is the subject of the sealing order. An order issued under this section to seal the record of a conviction of an individual may be presented to a district superintendent as evidence to support the contention that the superintendent should recommend that the permanent exclusion of the individual who is the subject of the sealing order be revoked. Except as otherwise authorized by this division and sections 3301.121 and 3313.662 of the Revised Code, any school employee in possession of or having access to the sealed conviction records of an individual that were the basis of a permanent exclusion of the individual is subject to section 2953.35 of the Revised Code. (H) For purposes of sections 2953.31 to 2953.36 of the Revised Code, DNA records collected in the DNA database and fingerprints filed for record by the superintendent of the bureau of criminal identification and investigation shall not be sealed unless the superintendent receives a certified copy of a final court order establishing that the offender s conviction has been overturned. For purposes of this section, a court order is not  final  if time remains for an appeal or application for discretionary review with respect to the order. (I) The sealing of a record under this section does not affect the assessment of points under section 4510.036 of the Revised Code and does not erase points assessed against a person as a result of the sealed record. H. B. No. 1 As Passed by the House Page 21 Section 2. That existing sections 2951.041, 2953.31, and 2953.32 of the Revised Code are hereby repealed. Section 3. Section 2951.041 of the Revised Code is presented in this act as a composite of the section as amended by Sub. S.B. 4, Sub. S.B. 33, and Am. Sub. S.B. 66, all of the 132nd General Assembly. The General Assembly, applying the principle stated in division (B) of section 1.52 of the Revised Code that amendments are to be harmonized if reasonably capable of simultaneous operation, finds that the composite is the resulting version of the section in effect prior to the effective date of the section as presented in this act. 