As Passed by the House 133rd General Assembly Regular Session 2019-2020 Sub. H. B. No. 3 Representatives Boyd, Carruthers Cosponsors: Representatives Boggs, Brent, Crawley, Cross, Crossman, Galonski, Hicks-Hudson, Hoops, Howse, Ingram, Kent, Leland, Lepore-Hagan, Lightbody, Liston, Miranda, O Brien, Patterson, Robinson, Sobecki, Sweeney, Sykes, Upchurch, Weinstein, West, Plummer, Grendell, Rogers, Smith, T., Edwards, Hambley, Perales, Roemer, Abrams, Baldridge, Brown, Callender, Carfagna, Cera, Clites, DeVitis, Fraizer, Ghanbari, Ginter, Green, Greenspan, Holmes, A., Jones, Kelly, Koehler, Lanese, Lang, LaRe, Manning, G., Miller, J., Patton, Reineke, Richardson, Russo, Scherer, Sheehy, Smith, K., Stein, Stephens, Stoltzfus, Swearingen A   BILL To amend sections 109.744, 109.803, 2903.01, 2919.25, 2919.27, 2929.12, 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22, 2935.032, 2937.23, and 3113.31; to amend, for the purpose of adopting a new section number as indicated in parentheses, section 2935.033 (2935.034); and to enact new section 2935.033 and section 2919.261 of the Revised Code; and to amend Section 221.10 of H.B. 166 of the 133rd General Assembly to add domestic violence circumstances to the offense of aggravated murder, to expand the offense of domestic violence to also prohibit strangulation of a family or household member, to require law enforcement officers to utilize a qualified lethality assessment screening tool to refer high risk victims to domestic violence resources, to create the Domestic Violence Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 2 Prosecution Study Committee, to name this act Aisha s Law, and to make an appropriation. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF OHIO: Section 1. That sections 109.744, 109.803, 2903.01, 2919.25, 2919.27, 2929.12, 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22, 2935.032, 2937.23, and 3113.31 be amended; section 2935.033 (2935.034) be amended for the purpose of adopting a new section number as indicated in parentheses; and new section 2935.033 and section 2919.261 of the Revised Code be enacted to read as follows: Sec. 109.744. The attorney general shall adopt, in accordance with Chapter 119. of the Revised Code or pursuant to section 109.74 of the Revised Code, rules governing the training of peace officers in the handling of the offense of domestic violence, other types of domestic violence-related offenses and incidents, and protection orders and consent agreements issued or approved under section 2919.26 or 3113.31 of the Revised Code. The provisions of the rules shall include, but shall not be limited to, all of the following: (A) A specified amount of training that is necessary for the satisfactory completion of basic training programs at approved peace officer training schools, other than the Ohio peace officer training academy; (B) A requirement that the training include, but not be limited to, training in all of the following: (1) All recent amendments to domestic violence-related laws; Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House victim s rights; Revised Code; (2) Notifying a victim of domestic violence of the (3) Processing protection orders and consent agreements issued or approved under section 2919.26 or 3113.31 of the Page 3 (4) Using an evidence-based lethality assessment screening tool to determine the level of risk to a victim of domestic violence and to refer high risk victims to local or regional domestic violence advocacy services, as required under section 2935.033 of the Revised Code. (C) A list of validated and evidence-based lethality assessment screening tools that constitute qualified lethality assessment screening tools including all of the following: (1) The domestic violence lethality screen for first responders developed by the Maryland network against domestic violence; (2) The danger assessment for law enforcement tool developed by the Jeanne Geiger crisis center; (3) Any other lethality assessment screening tool endorsed by the United States department of justice and found to meet criteria established by the attorney general. Sec. 109.803. (A)(1) Subject to divisions (A)(2) and (B) of this section, every appointing authority shall require each of its appointed peace officers and troopers to complete up to twenty-four hours of continuing professional training each calendar year, as directed by the Ohio peace officer training commission. The number of hours directed by the commission, up to twenty-four hours, is intended to be a minimum requirement, and appointing authorities are encouraged to exceed the number Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 4 of hours the commission directs as the minimum. The commission shall set the required minimum number of hours based upon available funding for reimbursement as described in this division. If Except as provided in division (B)(4) of this section, if no funding for the reimbursement is available, no continuing professional training will be required. (2) An appointing authority may submit a written request to the peace officer training commission that requests for a calendar year because of emergency circumstances an extension of the time within which one or more of its appointed peace officers or troopers must complete the required minimum number of hours of continuing professional training set by the commission, as described in division (A)(1) of this section. A request made under this division shall set forth the name of each of the appointing authority s peace officers or troopers for whom an extension is requested, identify the emergency circumstances related to that peace officer or trooper, include documentation of those emergency circumstances, and set forth the date on which the request is submitted to the commission. A request shall be made under this division not later than the fifteenth day of December in the calendar year for which the extension is requested. Upon receipt of a written request made under this division, the executive director of the commission shall review the request and the submitted documentation. If the executive director of the commission is satisfied that emergency circumstances exist for any peace officer or trooper for whom a request was made under this division, the executive director may approve the request for that peace officer or trooper and grant an extension of the time within which that peace officer or trooper must complete the required minimum number of hours of Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 5 continuing professional training set by the commission. An extension granted under this division may be for any period of time the executive director believes to be appropriate, and the executive director shall specify in the notice granting the extension the date on which the extension ends. Not later than thirty days after the date on which a request is submitted to the commission, for each peace officer and trooper for whom an extension is requested, the executive director either shall approve the request and grant an extension or deny the request and deny an extension and shall send to the appointing authority that submitted the request written notice of the executive director s decision. If the executive director grants an extension of the time within which a particular appointed peace officer or trooper of an appointing authority must complete the required minimum number of hours of continuing professional training set by the commission, the appointing authority shall require that peace officer or trooper to complete the required minimum number of hours of training not later than the date on which the extension ends. (B) With the advice of the Ohio peace officer training commission, the attorney general shall adopt in accordance with Chapter 119. of the Revised Code rules setting forth minimum standards for continuing professional training for peace officers and troopers and governing the administration of continuing professional training programs for peace officers and troopers. The rules adopted by the attorney general under division (B) of this section shall do all of the following: (1) Allow peace officers and troopers to earn credit for up to four hours of continuing professional training for time Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 6 spent while on duty providing drug use prevention education training that utilizes evidence-based curricula to students in school districts, community schools established under Chapter 3314., STEM schools established under Chapter 3326., and college-preparatory boarding schools established under Chapter 3328. of the Revised Code. (2) Allow a peace officer or trooper appointed by a law enforcement agency to earn hours of continuing professional training for other peace officers or troopers appointed by the law enforcement agency by providing drug use prevention education training under division (B)(1) of this section so that hours earned by the peace officer or trooper providing the training in excess of four hours may be applied to offset the number of continuing professional training hours required of another peace officer or trooper appointed by that law enforcement agency. (3) Prohibit the use of continuing professional training hours earned under division (B)(1) or (2) of this section from being used to offset any mandatory hands-on training requirement. (4) Require every peace officer and trooper who handles complaints of domestic violence to complete biennial professional training on both of the following: (a) Intervention techniques in domestic violence cases and the use of an evidence-based lethality assessment screening tool to determine the level of risk to a victim of domestic violence; (b) The referral of high risk victims to local or regional domestic violence advocacy services, as required under section 2935.033 of the Revised Code. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 7 (5) Allow the peace officer training commission to pay for training required under division (B)(4) of this section using federal funds made available to the state or localities pursuant to a program of the United States department of justice or using funds appropriated by the general assembly or allocated for that purpose by the attorney general. (C) The attorney general shall transmit a certified copy of any rule adopted under this section to the secretary of state. Sec. 2903.01. (A) No person shall purposely, and with prior calculation and design, cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another s pregnancy. (B) No person shall purposely cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another s pregnancy while committing or attempting to commit, or while fleeing immediately after committing or attempting to commit, kidnapping, rape, aggravated arson, arson, aggravated robbery, robbery, aggravated burglary, burglary, trespass in a habitation when a person is present or likely to be present, terrorism, or escape. (C) No person shall purposely cause the death of another who is under thirteen years of age at the time of the commission of the offense. (D) No person who is under detention as a result of having been found guilty of or having pleaded guilty to a felony or who breaks that detention shall purposely cause the death of another. (E) No person shall purposely cause the death of a law enforcement officer whom the offender knows or has reasonable cause to know is a law enforcement officer when either of the Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House following applies: Page 8 (1) The victim, at the time of the commission of the offense, is engaged in the victim s duties. (2) It is the offender s specific purpose to kill a law enforcement officer. (F) No person shall purposely cause the death of a first responder or military member whom the offender knows or has reasonable cause to know is a first responder or military member when it is the offender s specific purpose to kill a first responder or military member. (G) No person shall purposely cause the death of another person when both of the following apply: (1) The victim was a family or household member of the offender; (2) The offender has previously been convicted of domestic violence resulting in serious physical harm or an offense of violence against the victim resulting in serious physical harm . (H) Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated murder, and shall be punished as provided in section 2929.02 of the Revised Code. (H) (I) As used in this section: (1)  Detention  has the same meaning as in section 2921.01 of the Revised Code. (2)  Law enforcement officer  has the same meaning as in section 2911.01 of the Revised Code and also includes any federal law enforcement officer as defined in section 2921.51 of the Revised Code and anyone who has previously served as a law Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 9 enforcement officer or federal law enforcement officer. (3)  First responder  means an emergency medical service provider, a firefighter, or any other emergency response personnel, or anyone who has previously served as a first responder. (4)  Military member  means a member of the armed forces of the United States, reserves, or Ohio national guard, a participant in ROTC, JROTC, or any similar military training program, or anyone who has previously served in the military. (5)  Family or household member  means any of the following: (a) Any of the following who is residing with or has resided with the offender: (i) A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of the offender; (ii) A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender; (iii) A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the offender; (iv) A child whose guardian or custodian is a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the offender. (b) The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 10 (6)  Person living as a spouse  means a person who is living or has lived with the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five years prior to the date of the alleged occurrence of the act in question. (7)  Child,   custodian,  and  guardian  have the same meanings as in section 3109.51 of the Revised Code. Sec. 2919.25. (A) No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a family or household member. (B) No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or household member. (C) No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm to the family or household member. (D)   No person shall recklessly impede the normal breathing or circulation of the blood of a family or household member by applying pressure to the throat or neck, or by covering the nose mouth, of the family or household member. and (E)(1) Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence, and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(E)(2) to (6) (8) of this section. (2) Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D)(E)(3) to (5) of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. (3) Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(E)(4) of Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 11 this section, if the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that is substantially similar to domestic violence, a violation of section 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12, 2911.211, or 2919.22 of the Revised Code if the victim of the violation was a family or household member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that is substantially similar to any of those sections if the victim of the violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony of the fourth degree, and, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at the time of the violation, the court shall impose a mandatory prison term on the offender pursuant to division (D)(6) (E)(8) of this section, and a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree. (4) If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or offenses of the type described in division (D)(E)(3) of this section involving a person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony of the third degree, and, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at the time of the violation, the court shall impose a mandatory prison term on the offender pursuant to division (D)(6) (E)(8) of this section, and Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House the first degree. a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of (5) Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(E)(3) or (4) of this section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony of the fifth degree, and the court shall impose a mandatory prison term on the offender pursuant to division (D)(6) (E)(8) of this section, and a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. (6) Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(7) of this section, a violation of division (D) of this section is a felony of the third degree. (7) If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of a violation of this section, or if the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two or more offenses of violence, a violation of division (D) of this section is a felony of the second degree. (8) If division (D)(E)(3), (4), or (5) of this section requires the court that sentences an offender for a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section to impose a mandatory prison term on the offender pursuant to this division, the court shall impose the mandatory prison term as follows: (a) If the violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony of the fourth or fifth degree, except as otherwise provided in division (D)(6)(E)(8)(b) or (c) of this section, the court shall impose a mandatory prison term on the offender of at least six months. (b) If the violation of division (A) or (B) of this Page 12 Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 13 section is a felony of the fifth degree and the offender, in committing the violation, caused serious physical harm to the pregnant woman s unborn or caused the termination of the pregnant woman s pregnancy, the court shall impose a mandatory prison term on the offender of twelve months. (c) If the violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony of the fourth degree and the offender, in committing the violation, caused serious physical harm to the pregnant woman s unborn or caused the termination of the pregnant woman s pregnancy, the court shall impose a mandatory prison term on the offender of at least twelve months. (d) If the violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony of the third degree, except as otherwise provided in division (D)(6)(E)(8)(e) of this section and notwithstanding the range of definite prison terms prescribed in division (A)(3) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code for a felony of the third degree, the court shall impose a mandatory prison term on the offender of either a definite term of six months or one of the prison terms prescribed in division (A)(3) (b) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code for felonies of the third degree. (e) If the violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony of the third degree and the offender, in committing the violation, caused serious physical harm to the pregnant woman s unborn or caused the termination of the pregnant woman s pregnancy, notwithstanding the range of definite prison terms prescribed in division (A)(3) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code for a felony of the third degree, the court shall impose a mandatory prison term on the offender of either a definite term of one year or one of the prison terms Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 14 prescribed in division (A)(3)(b) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code for felonies of the third degree. (E) (F) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially similar to this section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed. (F) (G) It is not required in a prosecution under division (D) of this section to allege or prove that the family or household member who is the victim suffered physical harm or serious physical harm or visible injury or that there was an intent to kill or protractedly injure the family or household member. (H) It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (D) of this section that the act was done to the family or household member as part of a medical or other procedure undertaken to aid or benefit the victim. A prosecution for a violation of this section does not (I) preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that can be prosecuted under this section or any other section of the Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Revised Code, or both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of section 2903.11, 2903.12, or 2903.13 of the Revised Code based on the same conduct involving the same victim that was the basis of the violation of this Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 15 section, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar import under section 2941.25 of the Revised Code. (J) As used in this section and sections 2919.251 and 2919.26 of the Revised Code: (1)  Family or household member  means any of the following: with the offender: (a) Any of the following who is residing or has resided (i) A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of the offender; (ii) A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender; (iii) A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the offender. (b) The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent. question. (2)  Person living as a spouse  means a person who is living or has lived with the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in (3)  Pregnant woman s unborn  has the same meaning as  such other person s unborn,  as set forth in section 2903.09 of Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 16 the Revised Code, as it relates to the pregnant woman. Division (C) of that section applies regarding the use of the term in this section, except that the second and third sentences of division (C)(1) of that section shall be construed for purposes of this section as if they included a reference to this section in the listing of Revised Code sections they contain. (4)  Termination of the pregnant woman s pregnancy  has the same meaning as  unlawful termination of another s pregnancy,  as set forth in section 2903.09 of the Revised Code, as it relates to the pregnant woman. Division (C) of that section applies regarding the use of the term in this section, except that the second and third sentences of division (C)(1) of that section shall be construed for purposes of this section as if they included a reference to this section in the listing of Revised Code sections they contain. Sec. 2919.261. (A) A law enforcement officer, on behalf of and with the consent of a victim of domestic violence, may request an emergency protection order from a judicial officer during any period of time that the court is not open for regular business. The request may be made orally or in writing based upon the sworn statement of the law enforcement officer and an allegation of either of the following by the person seeking the order: (1) That the victim is in immediate and present danger of domestic violence based on the officer s observations and an allegation of a recent incident of domestic violence; (2) That a child of the victim is in immediate and present danger, based on the officer s observations and an allegation of a recent incident of domestic violence. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 17 (B) If the court finds probable cause, based on a request made under division (A) of this section, to believe that the victim or child of a victim is in immediate danger based on an allegation of a recent incident of domestic violence, the court shall issue an emergency protection order. (C) An emergency protection order issued under this section may contain any of the following terms: (1) That the alleged domestic violence offender refrain from abusing, threatening, harassing, stalking, or forcing sexual relations on a protected person; (2) That the alleged domestic violence offender refrain from entering or interfering with the residence, school, business, place of employment, child care provider, or child day-care center of a protected person; (3) That the alleged domestic violence offender refrain from initiating or having any contact with a protected person or the residence, school, business, place of employment, child care provider, or child day-care center of a protected person; (4) That the alleged domestic violence offender refrain from being within five hundred feet of a protected person. (D) A court that orders an emergency protection order under this section shall communicate the terms of the order by reliable electronic means to an officer of the appropriate law enforcement agency. Upon receiving the order, the law enforcement officer shall do all of the following: (1) Provide a copy of the order to each person protected by the order; (2) Serve a copy of the order on the alleged domestic Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 18 violence offender who is subject to the order; (3) Enter the order into the law enforcement automated data system so that the order may be entered into the national crime information center s protection order file. (E) An emergency protection order issued under this section shall remain in effect until the earliest of the following: issued; (1) Ninety-six hours after the order was issued; (2) Five o clock in the evening of the first day that the court is open for business after the day that the order was (3) The time at which the court, at the request of the petitioner, terminates the order. (F) As used in this section,  contact  includes telephone contact; contact by text message, instant message, voice mail, electronic mail, or social networking media; and contact by any other means of communication. Sec. 2919.27. (A) No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following: (1) A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to section 2919.26, 2919.261, or 3113.31 of the Revised Code; (2) A protection order issued pursuant to section 2151.34, 2903.213, or 2903.214 of the Revised Code; (3) A protection order issued by a court of another state. (B)(1) Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a protection order. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 19 (2) Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (4) of this section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree. (3) Violating a protection order is a felony of the fifth degree if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following: (a) A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to section 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26,   2919.261, or 3113.31 of the Revised Code; (b) Two or more violations of section 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or 2911.211 of the Revised Code, or any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the subject of the protection order or consent agreement; (c) One or more violations of this section. (4) If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony of the third degree. (5) If the protection order violated by the offender was an order issued pursuant to section 2151.34 or 2903.214 of the Revised Code that required electronic monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 20 device and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device. If the court determines that the offender is indigent and subject to the maximum amount allowable and the rules promulgated by the attorney general under section 2903.214 of the Revised Code, the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device may be paid out of funds from the reparations fund created pursuant to section 2743.191 of the Revised Code. The total amount paid from the reparations fund created pursuant to section 2743.191 of the Revised Code for electronic monitoring under this section and sections 2151.34 and 2903.214 of the Revised Code shall not exceed three hundred thousand dollars per year. (C) It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. 2265(b) for a protection order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. 2265(c). (D) In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge, magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement. (E) As used in this section,  protection order issued by a Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 21 court of another state  means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to another person, including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a complaint, petition, or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking protection.  Protection order issued by a court of another state  does not include an order for support or for custody of a child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state, except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States. Sec. 2929.12. (A) Unless otherwise required by section 2929.13 or 2929.14 of the Revised Code, a court that imposes a sentence under this chapter upon an offender for a felony has discretion to determine the most effective way to comply with the purposes and principles of sentencing set forth in section 2929.11 of the Revised Code. In exercising that discretion, the court shall consider the factors set forth in divisions (B) and (C) of this section relating to the seriousness of the conduct, the factors provided in divisions (D) and (E) of this section relating to the likelihood of the offender s recidivism, and the factors set forth in division (F) of this section pertaining to the offender s service in the armed forces of the United States and, in addition, may consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving those purposes and principles of sentencing. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 22 (B) The sentencing court shall consider all of the following that apply regarding the offender, the offense, or the victim, and any other relevant factors, as indicating that the offender s conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense: (1) The physical or mental injury suffered by the victim of the offense due to the conduct of the offender was exacerbated because of the physical or mental condition or age of the victim. (2) The victim of the offense suffered serious physical, psychological, or economic harm as a result of the offense. (3) The offender held a public office or position of trust in the community, and the offense related to that office or position. (4) The offender s occupation, elected office, or profession obliged the offender to prevent the offense or bring others committing it to justice. (5) The offender s professional reputation or occupation, elected office, or profession was used to facilitate the offense or is likely to influence the future conduct of others. (6) The offender s relationship with the victim facilitated the offense. (7) The offender committed the offense for hire or as a part of an organized criminal activity. (8) In committing the offense, the offender was motivated by prejudice based on race, ethnic background, gender, sexual orientation, or religion. (9) If the offense is a violation of section 2919.25 or a Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 23 violation of section 2903.11, 2903.12, or 2903.13 of the Revised Code involving a person who was a family or household member at the time of the violation, the offender committed the offense in the vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and the offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. (C) The sentencing court shall consider all of the following that apply regarding the offender, the offense, or the victim, and any other relevant factors, as indicating that the offender s conduct is less serious than conduct normally constituting the offense: (1) The victim induced or facilitated the offense. (2) In committing the offense, the offender acted under strong provocation. (3) In committing the offense, the offender did not cause or expect to cause physical harm to any person or property. (4) There are substantial grounds to mitigate the offender s conduct, although the grounds are not enough to constitute a defense. (D) The sentencing court shall consider all of the following that apply regarding the offender, and any other relevant factors, as factors indicating that the offender is likely to commit future crimes: (1) At the time of committing the offense, the offender was under release from confinement before trial or sentencing; was under a sanction imposed pursuant to section 2929.16, 2929.17, or 2929.18 of the Revised Code; was under post-release control pursuant to section 2967.28 or any other provision of Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 24 the Revised Code for an earlier offense or had been unfavorably terminated from post-release control for a prior offense pursuant to division (B) of section 2967.16 or section 2929.141 of the Revised Code; was under transitional control in connection with a prior offense; or had absconded from the offender s approved community placement resulting in the offender s removal from the transitional control program under section 2967.26 of the Revised Code. (2) The offender previously was adjudicated a delinquent child pursuant to Chapter 2151. of the Revised Code prior to January 1, 2002, or pursuant to Chapter 2152. of the Revised Code, or the offender has a history of criminal convictions. (3) The offender has not been rehabilitated to a satisfactory degree after previously being adjudicated a delinquent child pursuant to Chapter 2151. of the Revised Code prior to January 1, 2002, or pursuant to Chapter 2152. of the Revised Code, or the offender has not responded favorably to sanctions previously imposed for criminal convictions. (4) The offender has demonstrated a pattern of drug or alcohol abuse that is related to the offense, and the offender refuses to acknowledge that the offender has demonstrated that pattern, or the offender refuses treatment for the drug or alcohol abuse. (5) The offender shows no genuine remorse for the offense. (E) The sentencing court shall consider all of the following that apply regarding the offender, and any other relevant factors, as factors indicating that the offender is not likely to commit future crimes: (1) Prior to committing the offense, the offender had not Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 25 been adjudicated a delinquent child. (2) Prior to committing the offense, the offender had not been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a criminal offense. (3) Prior to committing the offense, the offender had led a law-abiding life for a significant number of years. (4) The offense was committed under circumstances not likely to recur. (5) The offender shows genuine remorse for the offense. (F) The sentencing court shall consider the offender s military service record and whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical condition that is traceable to the offender s service in the armed forces of the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender s commission of the offense or offenses. (G) The sentencing court shall consider the results of any screening conducted in the case under division (A)(2)(e) of section 2935.032 of the Revised Code , if any such results are available . Sec. 2929.13. (A) Except as provided in division (E), (F), or (G) of this section and unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is precluded from being imposed pursuant to law, a court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a felony may impose any sanction or combination of sanctions on the offender that are provided in sections 2929.14 to 2929.18 of the Revised Code. If the offender is eligible to be sentenced to community control sanctions, the court shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a financial sanction pursuant to section 2929.18 of Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 26 the Revised Code or a sanction of community service pursuant to section 2929.17 of the Revised Code as the sole sanction for the offense. Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the court is required to impose a mandatory prison term for the offense for which sentence is being imposed, the court also shall impose any financial sanction pursuant to section 2929.18 of the Revised Code that is required for the offense and may impose any other financial sanction pursuant to that section but may not impose any additional sanction or combination of sanctions under section 2929.16 or 2929.17 of the Revised Code. If the offender is being sentenced for a fourth degree felony OVI offense or for a third degree felony OVI offense, in addition to the mandatory term of local incarceration or the mandatory prison term required for the offense by division (G) (1) or (2) of this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a mandatory fine in accordance with division (B)(3) of section 2929.18 of the Revised Code and may impose whichever of the following is applicable: (1) For a fourth degree felony OVI offense for which sentence is imposed under division (G)(1) of this section, an additional community control sanction or combination of community control sanctions under section 2929.16 or 2929.17 of the Revised Code. If the court imposes upon the offender a community control sanction and the offender violates any condition of the community control sanction, the court may take any action prescribed in division (B) of section 2929.15 of the Revised Code relative to the offender, including imposing a prison term on the offender pursuant to that division. (2) For a third or fourth degree felony OVI offense for which sentence is imposed under division (G)(2) of this section, Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 27 an additional prison term as described in division (B)(4) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code or a community control sanction as described in division (G)(2) of this section. (B)(1)(a) Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this section, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony of the fourth or fifth degree that is not an offense of violence or that is a qualifying assault offense, the court shall sentence the offender to a community control sanction or combination of community control sanctions if all of the following apply: (i) The offender previously has not been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a felony offense. (ii) The most serious charge against the offender at the time of sentencing is a felony of the fourth or fifth degree. (iii) The offender previously has not been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor offense of violence that the offender committed within two years prior to the offense for which sentence is being imposed. (b) The court has discretion to impose a prison term upon an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony of the fourth or fifth degree that is not an offense of violence or that is a qualifying assault offense if any of the following apply: (i) The offender committed the offense while having a firearm on or about the offender s person or under the offender s control. (ii) If the offense is a qualifying assault offense, the offender caused serious physical harm to another person while committing the offense, and, if the offense is not a qualifying Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 28 assault offense, the offender caused physical harm to another person while committing the offense. (iii) The offender violated a term of the conditions of bond as set by the court. (iv) The offense is a sex offense that is a fourth or fifth degree felony violation of any provision of Chapter 2907. of the Revised Code. (v) In committing the offense, the offender attempted to cause or made an actual threat of physical harm to a person with a deadly weapon. (vi) In committing the offense, the offender attempted to cause or made an actual threat of physical harm to a person, and the offender previously was convicted of an offense that caused physical harm to a person. (vii) The offender held a public office or position of trust, and the offense related to that office or position; the offender s position obliged the offender to prevent the offense or to bring those committing it to justice; or the offender s professional reputation or position facilitated the offense or was likely to influence the future conduct of others. (viii) The offender committed the offense for hire or as part of an organized criminal activity. (ix) The offender at the time of the offense was serving, or the offender previously had served, a prison term. (x) The offender committed the offense while under a community control sanction, while on probation, or while released from custody on a bond or personal recognizance. (c) A sentencing court may impose an additional penalty Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 29 under division (B) of section 2929.15 of the Revised Code upon an offender sentenced to a community control sanction under division (B)(1)(a) of this section if the offender violates the conditions of the community control sanction, violates a law, or leaves the state without the permission of the court or the offender s probation officer. (2) If division (B)(1) of this section does not apply, except as provided in division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, in determining whether to impose a prison term as a sanction for a felony of the fourth or fifth degree, the sentencing court shall comply with the purposes and principles of sentencing under section 2929.11 of the Revised Code and with section 2929.12 of the Revised Code. (C) Except as provided in division (D), (E), (F), or (G) of this section, in determining whether to impose a prison term as a sanction for a felony of the third degree or a felony drug offense that is a violation of a provision of Chapter 2925. of the Revised Code and that is specified as being subject to this division for purposes of sentencing, the sentencing court shall comply with the purposes and principles of sentencing under section 2929.11 of the Revised Code and with section 2929.12 of the Revised Code. (D)(1) Except as provided in division (E) or (F) of this section, for a felony of the first or second degree, for a felony drug offense that is a violation of any provision of Chapter 2925., 3719., or 4729. of the Revised Code for which a presumption in favor of a prison term is specified as being applicable, and for a violation of division (A)(4) or (B) of section 2907.05 of the Revised Code for which a presumption in favor of a prison term is specified as being applicable, it is Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 30 presumed that a prison term is necessary in order to comply with the purposes and principles of sentencing under section 2929.11 of the Revised Code. Division (D)(2) of this section does not apply to a presumption established under this division for a violation of division (A)(4) of section 2907.05 of the Revised Code. (2) Notwithstanding the presumption established under division (D)(1) of this section for the offenses listed in that division other than a violation of division (A)(4) or (B) of section 2907.05 of the Revised Code, the sentencing court may impose a community control sanction or a combination of community control sanctions instead of a prison term on an offender for a felony of the first or second degree or for a felony drug offense that is a violation of any provision of Chapter 2925., 3719., or 4729. of the Revised Code for which a presumption in favor of a prison term is specified as being applicable if it makes both of the following findings: (a) A community control sanction or a combination of community control sanctions would adequately punish the offender and protect the public from future crime, because the applicable factors under section 2929.12 of the Revised Code indicating a lesser likelihood of recidivism outweigh the applicable factors under that section indicating a greater likelihood of recidivism. (b) A community control sanction or a combination of community control sanctions would not demean the seriousness of the offense, because one or more factors under section 2929.12 of the Revised Code that indicate that the offender s conduct was less serious than conduct normally constituting the offense are applicable, and they outweigh the applicable factors under Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 31 that section that indicate that the offender s conduct was more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense. (E)(1) Except as provided in division (F) of this section, for any drug offense that is a violation of any provision of Chapter 2925. of the Revised Code and that is a felony of the third, fourth, or fifth degree, the applicability of a presumption under division (D) of this section in favor of a prison term or of division (B) or (C) of this section in determining whether to impose a prison term for the offense shall be determined as specified in section 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.05, 2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.36, or 2925.37 of the Revised Code, whichever is applicable regarding the violation. (2) If an offender who was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a felony violates the conditions of a community control sanction imposed for the offense solely by reason of producing positive results on a drug test or by acting pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of section 2925.11 of the Revised Code with respect to a minor drug possession offense, the court, as punishment for the violation of the sanction, shall not order that the offender be imprisoned unless the court determines on the record either of the following: (a) The offender had been ordered as a sanction for the felony to participate in a drug treatment program, in a drug education program, or in narcotics anonymous or a similar program, and the offender continued to use illegal drugs after a reasonable period of participation in the program. (b) The imprisonment of the offender for the violation is consistent with the purposes and principles of sentencing set forth in section 2929.11 of the Revised Code. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 32 (3) A court that sentences an offender for a drug abuse offense that is a felony of the third, fourth, or fifth degree may require that the offender be assessed by a properly credentialed professional within a specified period of time. The court shall require the professional to file a written assessment of the offender with the court. If the offender is eligible for a community control sanction and after considering the written assessment, the court may impose a community control sanction that includes addiction services and recovery supports included in a community-based continuum of care established under section 340.032 of the Revised Code. If the court imposes addiction services and recovery supports as a community control sanction, the court shall direct the level and type of addiction services and recovery supports after considering the assessment and recommendation of community addiction services providers. (F) Notwithstanding divisions (A) to (E) of this section, the court shall impose a prison term or terms under sections 2929.02 to 2929.06, section 2929.14, section 2929.142, or section 2971.03 of the Revised Code and except as specifically provided in section 2929.20, divisions (C) to (I) of section 2967.19, or section 2967.191 of the Revised Code or when parole is authorized for the offense under section 2967.13 of the Revised Code shall not reduce the term or terms pursuant to section 2929.20, section 2967.19, section 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or Chapter 5120. of the Revised Code for any of the following offenses: (1) Aggravated murder when death is not imposed or murder; (2) Any rape, regardless of whether force was involved and regardless of the age of the victim, or an attempt to commit rape if, had the offender completed the rape that was attempted, Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 33 the offender would have been guilty of a violation of division (A)(1)(b) of section 2907.02 of the Revised Code and would be sentenced under section 2971.03 of the Revised Code; (3) Gross sexual imposition or sexual battery, if the victim is less than thirteen years of age and if any of the following applies: (a) Regarding gross sexual imposition, the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded guilty to rape, the former offense of felonious sexual penetration, gross sexual imposition, or sexual battery, and the victim of the previous offense was less than thirteen years of age; (b) Regarding gross sexual imposition, the offense was committed on or after August 3, 2006, and evidence other than the testimony of the victim was admitted in the case corroborating the violation. (c) Regarding sexual battery, either of the following applies: (i) The offense was committed prior to August 3, 2006, the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded guilty to rape, the former offense of felonious sexual penetration, or sexual battery, and the victim of the previous offense was less than thirteen years of age. (ii) The offense was committed on or after August 3, 2006. (4) A felony violation of section 2903.04, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2905.32, 2907.07, 2921.321, or 2923.132 of the Revised Code if the section requires the imposition of a prison term; (5) A first, second, or third degree felony drug offense Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 34 for which section 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.05, 2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.36, 2925.37, 3719.99, or 4729.99 of the Revised Code, whichever is applicable regarding the violation, requires the imposition of a mandatory prison term; (6) Any offense that is a first or second degree felony and that is not set forth in division (F)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section, if the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded guilty to aggravated murder, murder, any first or second degree felony, or an offense under an existing or former law of this state, another state, or the United States that is or was substantially equivalent to one of those offenses; (7) Any offense that is a third degree felony and either is a violation of section 2903.04 of the Revised Code or an attempt to commit a felony of the second degree that is an offense of violence and involved an attempt to cause serious physical harm to a person or that resulted in serious physical harm to a person if the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded guilty to any of the following offenses: (a) Aggravated murder, murder, involuntary manslaughter, rape, felonious sexual penetration as it existed under section 2907.12 of the Revised Code prior to September 3, 1996, a felony of the first or second degree that resulted in the death of a person or in physical harm to a person, or complicity in or an attempt to commit any of those offenses; (b) An offense under an existing or former law of this state, another state, or the United States that is or was substantially equivalent to an offense listed in division (F)(7) (a) of this section that resulted in the death of a person or in physical harm to a person. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 35 (8) Any offense, other than a violation of section 2923.12 of the Revised Code, that is a felony, if the offender had a firearm on or about the offender s person or under the offender s control while committing the felony, with respect to a portion of the sentence imposed pursuant to division (B)(1)(a) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code for having the firearm; (9) Any offense of violence that is a felony, if the offender wore or carried body armor while committing the felony offense of violence, with respect to the portion of the sentence imposed pursuant to division (B)(1)(d) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code for wearing or carrying the body armor; (10) Corrupt activity in violation of section 2923.32 of the Revised Code when the most serious offense in the pattern of corrupt activity that is the basis of the offense is a felony of the first degree; (11) Any violent sex offense or designated homicide, assault, or kidnapping offense if, in relation to that offense, the offender is adjudicated a sexually violent predator; (12) A violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2921.36 of the Revised Code, or a violation of division (C) of that section involving an item listed in division (A)(1) or (2) of that section, if the offender is an officer or employee of the department of rehabilitation and correction; (13) A violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2903.06 of the Revised Code if the victim of the offense is a peace officer, as defined in section 2935.01 of the Revised Code, or an investigator of the bureau of criminal identification and investigation, as defined in section 2903.11 of the Revised Code, with respect to the portion of the sentence Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Revised Code; imposed pursuant to division (B)(5) of section 2929.14 of the (14) A violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2903.06 of the Revised Code if the offender has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) or (B) of section 4511.19 of the Revised Code or an equivalent offense, as defined in section 2941.1415 of the Revised Code, or three or more violations of any combination of those divisions and offenses, with respect to the portion of the sentence imposed pursuant to division (B)(6) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code; (15) Kidnapping, in the circumstances specified in section 2971.03 of the Revised Code and when no other provision of division (F) of this section applies; (16) Kidnapping, abduction, compelling prostitution, promoting prostitution, engaging in a pattern of corrupt activity, a violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2907.323 of the Revised Code that involves a minor, or endangering children in violation of division (B)(1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of section 2919.22 of the Revised Code, if the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as described in section 2941.1422 of the Revised Code that was included in the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense; (17) A felony violation of division (A) or (B) of section 2919.25 of the Revised Code if division (D)(3)(E)(3), (4), or (5) of that section, and division (D)(6) (E)(8) of that section, require the imposition of a prison term; (18) A felony violation of section 2903.11, 2903.12, or Page 36 Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 37 2903.13 of the Revised Code, if the victim of the offense was a woman that the offender knew was pregnant at the time of the violation, with respect to a portion of the sentence imposed pursuant to division (B)(8) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code; (19)(a) Any violent felony offense if the offender is a violent career criminal and had a firearm on or about the offender s person or under the offender s control during the commission of the violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to facilitate the offense, with respect to the portion of the sentence imposed under division (K) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code. (b) As used in division (F)(19)(a) of this section,  violent career criminal  and  violent felony offense  have the same meanings as in section 2923.132 of the Revised Code;. (20) Any violation of division (A)(1) of section 2903.11 of the Revised Code if the offender used an accelerant in committing the violation and the serious physical harm to another or another s unborn caused by the violation resulted in a permanent, serious disfigurement or permanent, substantial incapacity or any violation of division (A)(2) of that section if the offender used an accelerant in committing the violation, the violation caused physical harm to another or another s unborn, and the physical harm resulted in a permanent, serious disfigurement or permanent, substantial incapacity, with respect to a portion of the sentence imposed pursuant to division (B)(9) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code. The provisions of this division and of division (D)(2) of section 2903.11, divisions (B)(9) and (C)(6) of section 2929.14, and section 2941.1425 of Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 38 the Revised Code shall be known as  Judy s Law.  (21) Any violation of division (A) of section 2903.11 of the Revised Code if the victim of the offense suffered permanent disabling harm as a result of the offense and the victim was under ten years of age at the time of the offense, with respect to a portion of the sentence imposed pursuant to division (B) (10) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code. (22) A felony violation of section 2925.03, 2925.05, or 2925.11 of the Revised Code, if the drug involved in the violation is a fentanyl-related compound or a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing a fentanyl-related compound and the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in division (B) of section 2941.1410 of the Revised Code that was included in the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense, with respect to the portion of the sentence imposed under division (B)(11) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code. (G) Notwithstanding divisions (A) to (E) of this section, if an offender is being sentenced for a fourth degree felony OVI offense or for a third degree felony OVI offense, the court shall impose upon the offender a mandatory term of local incarceration or a mandatory prison term in accordance with the following: (1) If the offender is being sentenced for a fourth degree felony OVI offense and if the offender has not been convicted of and has not pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.1413 of the Revised Code, the court may impose upon the offender a mandatory term of local incarceration of sixty days or one hundred twenty days as specified in division (G)(1)(d) of section 4511.19 of the Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 39 Revised Code. The court shall not reduce the term pursuant to section 2929.20, 2967.193, or any other provision of the Revised Code. The court that imposes a mandatory term of local incarceration under this division shall specify whether the term is to be served in a jail, a community-based correctional facility, a halfway house, or an alternative residential facility, and the offender shall serve the term in the type of facility specified by the court. A mandatory term of local incarceration imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is not subject to any other Revised Code provision that pertains to a prison term except as provided in division (A)(1) of this section. (2) If the offender is being sentenced for a third degree felony OVI offense, or if the offender is being sentenced for a fourth degree felony OVI offense and the court does not impose a mandatory term of local incarceration under division (G)(1) of this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a mandatory prison term of one, two, three, four, or five years if the offender also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.1413 of the Revised Code or shall impose upon the offender a mandatory prison term of sixty days or one hundred twenty days as specified in division (G)(1)(d) or (e) of section 4511.19 of the Revised Code if the offender has not been convicted of and has not pleaded guilty to a specification of that type. Subject to divisions (C) to (I) of section 2967.19 of the Revised Code, the court shall not reduce the term pursuant to section 2929.20, 2967.19, 2967.193, or any other provision of the Revised Code. The offender shall serve the one-, two-, three-, four-, or five- year mandatory prison term consecutively to and prior to the prison term imposed for the underlying offense and consecutively Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 40 to any other mandatory prison term imposed in relation to the offense. In no case shall an offender who once has been sentenced to a mandatory term of local incarceration pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section for a fourth degree felony OVI offense be sentenced to another mandatory term of local incarceration under that division for any violation of division (A) of section 4511.19 of the Revised Code. In addition to the mandatory prison term described in division (G)(2) of this section, the court may sentence the offender to a community control sanction under section 2929.16 or 2929.17 of the Revised Code, but the offender shall serve the prison term prior to serving the community control sanction. The department of rehabilitation and correction may place an offender sentenced to a mandatory prison term under this division in an intensive program prison established pursuant to section 5120.033 of the Revised Code if the department gave the sentencing judge prior notice of its intent to place the offender in an intensive program prison established under that section and if the judge did not notify the department that the judge disapproved the placement. Upon the establishment of the initial intensive program prison pursuant to section 5120.033 of the Revised Code that is privately operated and managed by a contractor pursuant to a contract entered into under section 9.06 of the Revised Code, both of the following apply: (a) The department of rehabilitation and correction shall make a reasonable effort to ensure that a sufficient number of offenders sentenced to a mandatory prison term under this division are placed in the privately operated and managed prison so that the privately operated and managed prison has full occupancy. (b) Unless the privately operated and managed prison has Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 41 full occupancy, the department of rehabilitation and correction shall not place any offender sentenced to a mandatory prison term under this division in any intensive program prison established pursuant to section 5120.033 of the Revised Code other than the privately operated and managed prison. (H) If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or child-victim oriented offense that is a felony committed on or after January 1, 1997, the judge shall require the offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to section 2901.07 of the Revised Code. (I) If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a child-victim oriented offense committed on or after January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the offender s duties imposed under sections 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06 of the Revised Code and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender, at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required under division (A)(2) of section 2950.03 of the Revised Code, the judge shall perform the duties specified in that section, or, if required under division (A)(6) of section 2950.03 of the Revised Code, the judge shall perform the duties specified in that division. (J)(1) Except as provided in division (J)(2) of this section, when considering sentencing factors under this section in relation to an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an attempt to commit an offense in violation of section 2923.02 of the Revised Code, the sentencing court shall consider the factors applicable to the felony category of the violation of section 2923.02 of the Revised Code instead of the factors applicable to the felony category of the offense attempted. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 42 (2) When considering sentencing factors under this section in relation to an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an attempt to commit a drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense, the sentencing court shall consider the factors applicable to the felony category that the drug abuse offense attempted would be if that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. (K) As used in this section: (1)  Community addiction services provider  has the same meaning as in section 5119.01 of the Revised Code. (2)  Drug abuse offense  has the same meaning as in section 2925.01 of the Revised Code. (3)  Minor drug possession offense  has the same meaning as in section 2925.11 of the Revised Code. (4)  Qualifying assault offense  means a violation of section 2903.13 of the Revised Code for which the penalty provision in division (C)(8)(b) or (C)(9)(b) of that section applies. (L) At the time of sentencing an offender for any sexually oriented offense, if the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender relative to that offense and the offender does not serve a prison term or jail term, the court may require that the offender be monitored by means of a global positioning device. If the court requires such monitoring, the cost of monitoring shall be borne by the offender. If the Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 43 offender is indigent, the cost of compliance shall be paid by the crime victims reparations fund. Sec. 2929.14. (A) Except as provided in division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8), (B)(9), (B)(10), (B)(11), (E), (G), (H), (J), or (K) of this section or in division (D)(6) (E)(8) of section 2919.25 of the Revised Code and except in relation to an offense for which a sentence of death or life imprisonment is to be imposed, if the court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a felony elects or is required to impose a prison term on the offender pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a prison term that shall be one of the following: (1)(a) For a felony of the first degree committed on or after the effective date of this amendment, the prison term shall be an indefinite prison term with a stated minimum term selected by the court of three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, or eleven years and a maximum term that is determined pursuant to section 2929.144 of the Revised Code, except that if the section that criminalizes the conduct constituting the felony specifies a different minimum term or penalty for the offense, the specific language of that section shall control in determining the minimum term or otherwise sentencing the offender but the minimum term or sentence imposed under that specific language shall be considered for purposes of the Revised Code as if it had been imposed under this division. (b) For a felony of the first degree committed prior to the effective date of this amendment, the prison term shall be a definite prison term of three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, or eleven years. (2)(a) For a felony of the second degree committed on or Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 44 after the effective date of this amendment, the prison term shall be an indefinite prison term with a stated minimum term selected by the court of two, three, four, five, six, seven, or eight years and a maximum term that is determined pursuant to section 2929.144 of the Revised Code, except that if the section that criminalizes the conduct constituting the felony specifies a different minimum term or penalty for the offense, the specific language of that section shall control in determining the minimum term or otherwise sentencing the offender but the minimum term or sentence imposed under that specific language shall be considered for purposes of the Revised Code as if it had been imposed under this division. (b) For a felony of the second degree committed prior to the effective date of this amendment, the prison term shall be a definite term of two, three, four, five, six, seven, or eight years. (3)(a) For a felony of the third degree that is a violation of section 2903.06, 2903.08, 2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.321, 2907.322, 2907.323, or 3795.04 of the Revised Code or that is a violation of section 2911.02 or 2911.12 of the Revised Code if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty in two or more separate proceedings to two or more violations of section 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, or 2911.12 of the Revised Code, the prison term shall be a definite term of twelve, eighteen, twenty-four, thirty, thirty-six, forty-two, forty-eight, fifty-four, or sixty months. (b) For a felony of the third degree that is not an offense for which division (A)(3)(a) of this section applies, the prison term shall be a definite term of nine, twelve, eighteen, twenty-four, thirty, or thirty-six months. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 45 (4) For a felony of the fourth degree, the prison term shall be a definite term of six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, or eighteen months. (5) For a felony of the fifth degree, the prison term shall be a definite term of six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, or twelve months. (B)(1)(a) Except as provided in division (B)(1)(e) of this section, if an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.141, 2941.144, or 2941.145 of the Revised Code, the court shall impose on the offender one of the following prison terms: (i) A prison term of six years if the specification is of the type described in division (A) of section 2941.144 of the Revised Code that charges the offender with having a firearm that is an automatic firearm or that was equipped with a firearm muffler or suppressor on or about the offender s person or under the offender s control while committing the offense; (ii) A prison term of three years if the specification is of the type described in division (A) of section 2941.145 of the Revised Code that charges the offender with having a firearm on or about the offender s person or under the offender s control while committing the offense and displaying the firearm, brandishing the firearm, indicating that the offender possessed the firearm, or using it to facilitate the offense; (iii) A prison term of one year if the specification is of the type described in division (A) of section 2941.141 of the Revised Code that charges the offender with having a firearm on Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 46 or about the offender s person or under the offender s control while committing the offense; (iv) A prison term of nine years if the specification is of the type described in division (D) of section 2941.144 of the Revised Code that charges the offender with having a firearm that is an automatic firearm or that was equipped with a firearm muffler or suppressor on or about the offender s person or under the offender s control while committing the offense and specifies that the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.141, 2941.144, 2941.145, 2941.146, or 2941.1412 of the Revised Code; (v) A prison term of fifty-four months if the specification is of the type described in division (D) of section 2941.145 of the Revised Code that charges the offender with having a firearm on or about the offender s person or under the offender s control while committing the offense and displaying the firearm, brandishing the firearm, indicating that the offender possessed the firearm, or using the firearm to facilitate the offense and that the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.141, 2941.144, 2941.145, 2941.146, or 2941.1412 of the Revised Code; (vi) A prison term of eighteen months if the specification is of the type described in division (D) of section 2941.141 of the Revised Code that charges the offender with having a firearm on or about the offender s person or under the offender s control while committing the offense and that the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.141, Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 47 2941.144, 2941.145, 2941.146, or 2941.1412 of the Revised Code. (b) If a court imposes a prison term on an offender under division (B)(1)(a) of this section, the prison term shall not be reduced pursuant to section 2967.19, section 2929.20, section 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or Chapter 5120. of the Revised Code. Except as provided in division (B)(1) (g) of this section, a court shall not impose more than one prison term on an offender under division (B)(1)(a) of this section for felonies committed as part of the same act or transaction. (c)(i) Except as provided in division (B)(1)(e) of this section, if an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of section 2923.161 of the Revised Code or to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to another, also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in division (A) of section 2941.146 of the Revised Code that charges the offender with committing the offense by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle other than a manufactured home, the court, after imposing a prison term on the offender for the violation of section 2923.161 of the Revised Code or for the other felony offense under division (A), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, shall impose an additional prison term of five years upon the offender that shall not be reduced pursuant to section 2929.20, section 2967.19, section 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or Chapter 5120. of the Revised Code. (ii) Except as provided in division (B)(1)(e) of this section, if an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of section 2923.161 of the Revised Code or to a Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 48 felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to another, also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in division (C) of section 2941.146 of the Revised Code that charges the offender with committing the offense by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle other than a manufactured home and that the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.141, 2941.144, 2941.145, 2941.146, or 2941.1412 of the Revised Code, the court, after imposing a prison term on the offender for the violation of section 2923.161 of the Revised Code or for the other felony offense under division (A), (B)(2), or (3) of this section, shall impose an additional prison term of ninety months upon the offender that shall not be reduced pursuant to section 2929.20, 2967.19, 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or Chapter 5120. of the Revised Code. (iii) A court shall not impose more than one additional prison term on an offender under division (B)(1)(c) of this section for felonies committed as part of the same act or transaction. If a court imposes an additional prison term on an offender under division (B)(1)(c) of this section relative to an offense, the court also shall impose a prison term under division (B)(1)(a) of this section relative to the same offense, provided the criteria specified in that division for imposing an additional prison term are satisfied relative to the offender and the offense. (d) If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense of violence that is a felony also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.1411 of the Revised Code that charges the offender Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 49 with wearing or carrying body armor while committing the felony offense of violence, the court shall impose on the offender an additional prison term of two years. The prison term so imposed, subject to divisions (C) to (I) of section 2967.19 of the Revised Code, shall not be reduced pursuant to section 2929.20, section 2967.19, section 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or Chapter 5120. of the Revised Code. A court shall not impose more than one prison term on an offender under division (B)(1)(d) of this section for felonies committed as part of the same act or transaction. If a court imposes an additional prison term under division (B)(1)(a) or (c) of this section, the court is not precluded from imposing an additional prison term under division (B)(1)(d) of this section. (e) The court shall not impose any of the prison terms described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any of the additional prison terms described in division (B)(1)(c) of this section upon an offender for a violation of section 2923.12 or 2923.123 of the Revised Code. The court shall not impose any of the prison terms described in division (B)(1)(a) or (b) of this section upon an offender for a violation of section 2923.122 that involves a deadly weapon that is a firearm other than a dangerous ordnance, section 2923.16, or section 2923.121 of the Revised Code. The court shall not impose any of the prison terms described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any of the additional prison terms described in division (B)(1)(c) of this section upon an offender for a violation of section 2923.13 of the Revised Code unless all of the following apply: (i) The offender previously has been convicted of aggravated murder, murder, or any felony of the first or second degree. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 50 (ii) Less than five years have passed since the offender was released from prison or post-release control, whichever is later, for the prior offense. (f)(i) If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony that includes, as an essential element, causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to another and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in division (A) of section 2941.1412 of the Revised Code that charges the offender with committing the offense by discharging a firearm at a peace officer as defined in section 2935.01 of the Revised Code or a corrections officer, as defined in section 2941.1412 of the Revised Code, the court, after imposing a prison term on the offender for the felony offense under division (A), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, shall impose an additional prison term of seven years upon the offender that shall not be reduced pursuant to section 2929.20, section 2967.19, section 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or Chapter 5120. of the Revised Code. (ii) If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony that includes, as an essential element, causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to another and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in division (B) of section 2941.1412 of the Revised Code that charges the offender with committing the offense by discharging a firearm at a peace officer, as defined in section 2935.01 of the Revised Code, or a corrections officer, as defined in section 2941.1412 of the Revised Code, and that the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.141, 2941.144, 2941.145, 2941.146, or 2941.1412 of the Revised Code, the court, after imposing a prison term on the Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 51 offender for the felony offense under division (A), (B)(2), or (3) of this section, shall impose an additional prison term of one hundred twenty-six months upon the offender that shall not be reduced pursuant to section 2929.20, 2967.19, 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or 5120. of the Revised Code. (iii) If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to two or more felonies that include, as an essential element, causing or attempting to cause the death or physical harm to another and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described under division (B)(1)(f) of this section in connection with two or more of the felonies of which the offender is convicted or to which the offender pleads guilty, the sentencing court shall impose on the offender the prison term specified under division (B)(1)(f) of this section for each of two of the specifications of which the offender is convicted or to which the offender pleads guilty and, in its discretion, also may impose on the offender the prison term specified under that division for any or all of the remaining specifications. If a court imposes an additional prison term on an offender under division (B)(1)(f) of this section relative to an offense, the court shall not impose a prison term under division (B)(1)(a) or (c) of this section relative to the same offense. (g) If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to two or more felonies, if one or more of those felonies are aggravated murder, murder, attempted aggravated murder, attempted murder, aggravated robbery, felonious assault, or rape, and if the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described under division (B)(1)(a) of this section in connection with two or more of the felonies, the Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 52 sentencing court shall impose on the offender the prison term specified under division (B)(1)(a) of this section for each of the two most serious specifications of which the offender is convicted or to which the offender pleads guilty and, in its discretion, also may impose on the offender the prison term specified under that division for any or all of the remaining specifications. (2)(a) If division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply, the court may impose on an offender, in addition to the longest prison term authorized or required for the offense or, for offenses for which division (A)(1)(a) or (2)(a) of this section applies, in addition to the longest minimum prison term authorized or required for the offense, an additional definite prison term of one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, or ten years if all of the following criteria are met: (i) The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.149 of the Revised Code that the offender is a repeat violent offender. (ii) The offense of which the offender currently is convicted or to which the offender currently pleads guilty is aggravated murder and the court does not impose a sentence of death or life imprisonment without parole, murder, terrorism and the court does not impose a sentence of life imprisonment without parole, any felony of the first degree that is an offense of violence and the court does not impose a sentence of life imprisonment without parole, or any felony of the second degree that is an offense of violence and the trier of fact finds that the offense involved an attempt to cause or a threat to cause serious physical harm to a person or resulted in serious physical harm to a person. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 53 (iii) The court imposes the longest prison term for the offense or the longest minimum prison term for the offense, whichever is applicable, that is not life imprisonment without parole. (iv) The court finds that the prison terms imposed pursuant to division (B)(2)(a)(iii) of this section and, if applicable, division (B)(1) or (3) of this section are inadequate to punish the offender and protect the public from future crime, because the applicable factors under section 2929.12 of the Revised Code indicating a greater likelihood of recidivism outweigh the applicable factors under that section indicating a lesser likelihood of recidivism. (v) The court finds that the prison terms imposed pursuant to division (B)(2)(a)(iii) of this section and, if applicable, division (B)(1) or (3) of this section are demeaning to the seriousness of the offense, because one or more of the factors under section 2929.12 of the Revised Code indicating that the offender s conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense are present, and they outweigh the applicable factors under that section indicating that the offender s conduct is less serious than conduct normally constituting the offense. (b) The court shall impose on an offender the longest prison term authorized or required for the offense or, for offenses for which division (A)(1)(a) or (2)(a) of this section applies, the longest minimum prison term authorized or required for the offense, and shall impose on the offender an additional definite prison term of one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, or ten years if all of the following criteria are met: Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 54 (i) The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.149 of the Revised Code that the offender is a repeat violent offender. (ii) The offender within the preceding twenty years has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more offenses described in division (CC)(1) of section 2929.01 of the Revised Code, including all offenses described in that division of which the offender is convicted or to which the offender pleads guilty in the current prosecution and all offenses described in that division of which the offender previously has been convicted or to which the offender previously pleaded guilty, whether prosecuted together or separately. (iii) The offense or offenses of which the offender currently is convicted or to which the offender currently pleads guilty is aggravated murder and the court does not impose a sentence of death or life imprisonment without parole, murder, terrorism and the court does not impose a sentence of life imprisonment without parole, any felony of the first degree that is an offense of violence and the court does not impose a sentence of life imprisonment without parole, or any felony of the second degree that is an offense of violence and the trier of fact finds that the offense involved an attempt to cause or a threat to cause serious physical harm to a person or resulted in serious physical harm to a person. (c) For purposes of division (B)(2)(b) of this section, two or more offenses committed at the same time or as part of the same act or event shall be considered one offense, and that one offense shall be the offense with the greatest penalty. (d) A sentence imposed under division (B)(2)(a) or (b) of this section shall not be reduced pursuant to section 2929.20, Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 55 section 2967.19, or section 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or Chapter 5120. of the Revised Code. The offender shall serve an additional prison term imposed under division (B) (2)(a) or (b) of this section consecutively to and prior to the prison term imposed for the underlying offense. (e) When imposing a sentence pursuant to division (B)(2) (a) or (b) of this section, the court shall state its findings explaining the imposed sentence. (3) Except when an offender commits a violation of section 2903.01 or 2907.02 of the Revised Code and the penalty imposed for the violation is life imprisonment or commits a violation of section 2903.02 of the Revised Code, if the offender commits a violation of section 2925.03 or 2925.11 of the Revised Code and that section classifies the offender as a major drug offender, if the offender commits a violation of section 2925.05 of the Revised Code and division (E)(1) of that section classifies the offender as a major drug offender, if the offender commits a felony violation of section 2925.02, 2925.04, 2925.05, 2925.36, 3719.07, 3719.08, 3719.16, 3719.161, 4729.37, or 4729.61, division (C) or (D) of section 3719.172, division (E) of section 4729.51, or division (J) of section 4729.54 of the Revised Code that includes the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a schedule I or II controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and the court imposing sentence upon the offender finds that the offender is guilty of a specification of the type described in division (A) of section 2941.1410 of the Revised Code charging that the offender is a major drug offender, if the court imposing sentence upon an offender for a felony finds that the offender is guilty of corrupt activity with the most serious offense in the pattern of corrupt activity being a felony of the first degree, or if the offender is guilty of an attempted Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 56 violation of section 2907.02 of the Revised Code and, had the offender completed the violation of section 2907.02 of the Revised Code that was attempted, the offender would have been subject to a sentence of life imprisonment or life imprisonment without parole for the violation of section 2907.02 of the Revised Code, the court shall impose upon the offender for the felony violation a mandatory prison term determined as described in this division that, subject to divisions (C) to (I) of section 2967.19 of the Revised Code, cannot be reduced pursuant to section 2929.20, section 2967.19, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or 5120. of the Revised Code. The mandatory prison term shall be the maximum definite prison term prescribed in division (A)(1)(b) of this section for a felony of the first degree, except that for offenses for which division (A)(1)(a) of this section applies, the mandatory prison term shall be the longest minimum prison term prescribed in that division for the offense. (4) If the offender is being sentenced for a third or fourth degree felony OVI offense under division (G)(2) of section 2929.13 of the Revised Code, the sentencing court shall impose upon the offender a mandatory prison term in accordance with that division. In addition to the mandatory prison term, if the offender is being sentenced for a fourth degree felony OVI offense, the court, notwithstanding division (A)(4) of this section, may sentence the offender to a definite prison term of not less than six months and not more than thirty months, and if the offender is being sentenced for a third degree felony OVI offense, the sentencing court may sentence the offender to an additional prison term of any duration specified in division (A) (3) of this section. In either case, the additional prison term imposed shall be reduced by the sixty or one hundred twenty days Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 57 imposed upon the offender as the mandatory prison term. The total of the additional prison term imposed under division (B) (4) of this section plus the sixty or one hundred twenty days imposed as the mandatory prison term shall equal a definite term in the range of six months to thirty months for a fourth degree felony OVI offense and shall equal one of the authorized prison terms specified in division (A)(3) of this section for a third degree felony OVI offense. If the court imposes an additional prison term under division (B)(4) of this section, the offender shall serve the additional prison term after the offender has served the mandatory prison term required for the offense. In addition to the mandatory prison term or mandatory and additional prison term imposed as described in division (B)(4) of this section, the court also may sentence the offender to a community control sanction under section 2929.16 or 2929.17 of the Revised Code, but the offender shall serve all of the prison terms so imposed prior to serving the community control sanction. If the offender is being sentenced for a fourth degree felony OVI offense under division (G)(1) of section 2929.13 of the Revised Code and the court imposes a mandatory term of local incarceration, the court may impose a prison term as described in division (A)(1) of that section. (5) If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2903.06 of the Revised Code and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.1414 of the Revised Code that charges that the victim of the offense is a peace officer, as defined in section 2935.01 of the Revised Code, or an investigator of the bureau of criminal identification and investigation, as defined in section 2903.11 Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 58 of the Revised Code, the court shall impose on the offender a prison term of five years. If a court imposes a prison term on an offender under division (B)(5) of this section, the prison term, subject to divisions (C) to (I) of section 2967.19 of the Revised Code, shall not be reduced pursuant to section 2929.20, section 2967.19, section 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or Chapter 5120. of the Revised Code. A court shall not impose more than one prison term on an offender under division (B)(5) of this section for felonies committed as part of the same act. (6) If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2903.06 of the Revised Code and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.1415 of the Revised Code that charges that the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) or (B) of section 4511.19 of the Revised Code or an equivalent offense, as defined in section 2941.1415 of the Revised Code, or three or more violations of any combination of those divisions and offenses, the court shall impose on the offender a prison term of three years. If a court imposes a prison term on an offender under division (B)(6) of this section, the prison term, subject to divisions (C) to (I) of section 2967.19 of the Revised Code, shall not be reduced pursuant to section 2929.20, section 2967.19, section 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or Chapter 5120. of the Revised Code. A court shall not impose more than one prison term on an offender under division (B)(6) of this section for felonies committed as part of the same act. (7)(a) If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony violation of section 2905.01, 2905.02, 2907.21, Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 59 2907.22, or 2923.32, division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2907.323 involving a minor, or division (B)(1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of section 2919.22 of the Revised Code and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.1422 of the Revised Code that charges that the offender knowingly committed the offense in furtherance of human trafficking, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory prison term that is one of the following: (i) If the offense is a felony of the first degree, a definite prison term of not less than five years and not greater than eleven years, except that if the offense is a felony of the first degree committed on or after the effective date of this amendment, the court shall impose as the minimum prison term a mandatory term of not less than five years and not greater than eleven years; (ii) If the offense is a felony of the second or third degree, a definite prison term of not less than three years and not greater than the maximum prison term allowed for the offense by division (A)(2)(b) or (3) of this section, except that if the offense is a felony of the second degree committed on or after the effective date of this amendment, the court shall impose as the minimum prison term a mandatory term of not less than three years and not greater than eight years; (iii) If the offense is a felony of the fourth or fifth degree, a definite prison term that is the maximum prison term allowed for the offense by division (A) of section 2929.14 of the Revised Code. (b) Subject to divisions (C) to (I) of section 2967.19 of the Revised Code, the prison term imposed under division (B)(7) (a) of this section shall not be reduced pursuant to section Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 60 2929.20, section 2967.19, section 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. of the Revised Code. A court shall not impose more than one prison term on an offender under division (B)(7)(a) of this section for felonies committed as part of the same act, scheme, or plan. (8) If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony violation of section 2903.11, 2903.12, or 2903.13 of the Revised Code and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.1423 of the Revised Code that charges that the victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the time of the violation, notwithstanding the range prescribed in division (A) of this section as the definite prison term or minimum prison term for felonies of the same degree as the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory prison term that is either a definite prison term of six months or one of the prison terms prescribed in division (A) of this section for felonies of the same degree as the violation, except that if the violation is a felony of the first or second degree committed on or after the effective date of this amendment, the court shall impose as the minimum prison term under division (A)(1)(a) or (2)(a) of this section a mandatory term that is one of the terms prescribed in that division, whichever is applicable, for the offense. (9)(a) If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2903.11 of the Revised Code and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.1425 of the Revised Code, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory prison term of six years if either of the following applies: Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 61 (i) The violation is a violation of division (A)(1) of section 2903.11 of the Revised Code and the specification charges that the offender used an accelerant in committing the violation and the serious physical harm to another or to another s unborn caused by the violation resulted in a permanent, serious disfigurement or permanent, substantial incapacity; (ii) The violation is a violation of division (A)(2) of section 2903.11 of the Revised Code and the specification charges that the offender used an accelerant in committing the violation, that the violation caused physical harm to another or to another s unborn, and that the physical harm resulted in a permanent, serious disfigurement or permanent, substantial incapacity. (b) If a court imposes a prison term on an offender under division (B)(9)(a) of this section, the prison term shall not be reduced pursuant to section 2929.20, section 2967.19, section 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or Chapter 5120. of the Revised Code. A court shall not impose more than one prison term on an offender under division (B)(9) of this section for felonies committed as part of the same act. (c) The provisions of divisions (B)(9) and (C)(6) of this section and of division (D)(2) of section 2903.11, division (F) (20) of section 2929.13, and section 2941.1425 of the Revised Code shall be known as  Judy s Law.  (10) If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of section 2903.11 of the Revised Code and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.1426 of the Revised Code that charges that the victim of the offense suffered permanent Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 62 disabling harm as a result of the offense and that the victim was under ten years of age at the time of the offense, regardless of whether the offender knew the age of the victim, the court shall impose upon the offender an additional definite prison term of six years. A prison term imposed on an offender under division (B)(10) of this section shall not be reduced pursuant to section 2929.20, section 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or Chapter 5120. of the Revised Code. If a court imposes an additional prison term on an offender under this division relative to a violation of division (A) of section 2903.11 of the Revised Code, the court shall not impose any other additional prison term on the offender relative to the same offense. (11) If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony violation of section 2925.03 or 2925.05 of the Revised Code or a felony violation of section 2925.11 of the Revised Code for which division (C)(11) of that section applies in determining the sentence for the violation, if the drug involved in the violation is a fentanyl-related compound or a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing a fentanyl-related compound, and if the offender also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in division (B) of section 2941.1410 of the Revised Code that charges that the offender is a major drug offender, in addition to any other penalty imposed for the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory prison term of three, four, five, six, seven, or eight years. If a court imposes a prison term on an offender under division (B)(11) of this section, the prison term, subject to divisions (C) to (I) of section 2967.19 of the Revised Code, shall not be reduced pursuant to section 2929.20, 2967.19, or 2967.193, or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 63 5120. of the Revised Code. A court shall not impose more than one prison term on an offender under division (B)(11) of this section for felonies committed as part of the same act. (C)(1)(a) Subject to division (C)(1)(b) of this section, if a mandatory prison term is imposed upon an offender pursuant to division (B)(1)(a) of this section for having a firearm on or about the offender s person or under the offender s control while committing a felony, if a mandatory prison term is imposed upon an offender pursuant to division (B)(1)(c) of this section for committing a felony specified in that division by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle, or if both types of mandatory prison terms are imposed, the offender shall serve any mandatory prison term imposed under either division consecutively to any other mandatory prison term imposed under either division or under division (B)(1)(d) of this section, consecutively to and prior to any prison term imposed for the underlying felony pursuant to division (A), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section or any other section of the Revised Code, and consecutively to any other prison term or mandatory prison term previously or subsequently imposed upon the offender. (b) If a mandatory prison term is imposed upon an offender pursuant to division (B)(1)(d) of this section for wearing or carrying body armor while committing an offense of violence that is a felony, the offender shall serve the mandatory term so imposed consecutively to any other mandatory prison term imposed under that division or under division (B)(1)(a) or (c) of this section, consecutively to and prior to any prison term imposed for the underlying felony under division (A), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section or any other section of the Revised Code, and consecutively to any other prison term or mandatory prison term previously or subsequently imposed upon the offender. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 64 (c) If a mandatory prison term is imposed upon an offender pursuant to division (B)(1)(f) of this section, the offender shall serve the mandatory prison term so imposed consecutively to and prior to any prison term imposed for the underlying felony under division (A), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section or any other section of the Revised Code, and consecutively to any other prison term or mandatory prison term previously or subsequently imposed upon the offender. (d) If a mandatory prison term is imposed upon an offender pursuant to division (B)(7) or (8) of this section, the offender shall serve the mandatory prison term so imposed consecutively to any other mandatory prison term imposed under that division or under any other provision of law and consecutively to any other prison term or mandatory prison term previously or subsequently imposed upon the offender. (e) If a mandatory prison term is imposed upon an offender pursuant to division (B)(11) of this section, the offender shall serve the mandatory prison term consecutively to any other mandatory prison term imposed under that division, consecutively to and prior to any prison term imposed for the underlying felony, and consecutively to any other prison term or mandatory prison term previously or subsequently imposed upon the offender. (2) If an offender who is an inmate in a jail, prison, or other residential detention facility violates section 2917.02, 2917.03, or 2921.35 of the Revised Code or division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2921.34 of the Revised Code, if an offender who is under detention at a detention facility commits a felony violation of section 2923.131 of the Revised Code, or if an offender who is an inmate in a jail, prison, or other Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 65 residential detention facility or is under detention at a detention facility commits another felony while the offender is an escapee in violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2921.34 of the Revised Code, any prison term imposed upon the offender for one of those violations shall be served by the offender consecutively to the prison term or term of imprisonment the offender was serving when the offender committed that offense and to any other prison term previously or subsequently imposed upon the offender. (3) If a prison term is imposed for a violation of division (B) of section 2911.01 of the Revised Code, a violation of division (A) of section 2913.02 of the Revised Code in which the stolen property is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, or a felony violation of division (B) of section 2921.331 of the Revised Code, the offender shall serve that prison term consecutively to any other prison term or mandatory prison term previously or subsequently imposed upon the offender. (4) If multiple prison terms are imposed on an offender for convictions of multiple offenses, the court may require the offender to serve the prison terms consecutively if the court finds that the consecutive service is necessary to protect the public from future crime or to punish the offender and that consecutive sentences are not disproportionate to the seriousness of the offender s conduct and to the danger the offender poses to the public, and if the court also finds any of the following: (a) The offender committed one or more of the multiple offenses while the offender was awaiting trial or sentencing, was under a sanction imposed pursuant to section 2929.16, 2929.17, or 2929.18 of the Revised Code, or was under post- Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 66 release control for a prior offense. (b) At least two of the multiple offenses were committed as part of one or more courses of conduct, and the harm caused by two or more of the multiple offenses so committed was so great or unusual that no single prison term for any of the offenses committed as part of any of the courses of conduct adequately reflects the seriousness of the offender s conduct. (c) The offender s history of criminal conduct demonstrates that consecutive sentences are necessary to protect the public from future crime by the offender. (5) If a mandatory prison term is imposed upon an offender pursuant to division (B)(5) or (6) of this section, the offender shall serve the mandatory prison term consecutively to and prior to any prison term imposed for the underlying violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2903.06 of the Revised Code pursuant to division (A) of this section or section 2929.142 of the Revised Code. If a mandatory prison term is imposed upon an offender pursuant to division (B)(5) of this section, and if a mandatory prison term also is imposed upon the offender pursuant to division (B)(6) of this section in relation to the same violation, the offender shall serve the mandatory prison term imposed pursuant to division (B)(5) of this section consecutively to and prior to the mandatory prison term imposed pursuant to division (B)(6) of this section and consecutively to and prior to any prison term imposed for the underlying violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2903.06 of the Revised Code pursuant to division (A) of this section or section 2929.142 of the Revised Code. (6) If a mandatory prison term is imposed on an offender pursuant to division (B)(9) of this section, the offender shall Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 67 serve the mandatory prison term consecutively to and prior to any prison term imposed for the underlying violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of section 2903.11 of the Revised Code and consecutively to and prior to any other prison term or mandatory prison term previously or subsequently imposed on the offender. (7) If a mandatory prison term is imposed on an offender pursuant to division (B)(10) of this section, the offender shall serve that mandatory prison term consecutively to and prior to any prison term imposed for the underlying felonious assault. Except as otherwise provided in division (C) of this section, any other prison term or mandatory prison term previously or subsequently imposed upon the offender may be served concurrently with, or consecutively to, the prison term imposed pursuant to division (B)(10) of this section. (8) Any prison term imposed for a violation of section 2903.04 of the Revised Code that is based on a violation of section 2925.03 or 2925.11 of the Revised Code or on a violation of section 2925.05 of the Revised Code that is not funding of marihuana trafficking shall run consecutively to any prison term imposed for the violation of section 2925.03 or 2925.11 of the Revised Code or for the violation of section 2925.05 of the Revised Code that is not funding of marihuana trafficking. (9) When consecutive prison terms are imposed pursuant to division (C)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), or (8) or division (H)(1) or (2) of this section, subject to division (C) (10) of this section, the term to be served is the aggregate of all of the terms so imposed. (10) When a court sentences an offender to a non-life felony indefinite prison term, any definite prison term or mandatory definite prison term previously or subsequently Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 68 imposed on the offender in addition to that indefinite sentence that is required to be served consecutively to that indefinite sentence shall be served prior to the indefinite sentence. (11) If a court is sentencing an offender for a felony of the first or second degree, if division (A)(1)(a) or (2)(a) of this section applies with respect to the sentencing for the offense, and if the court is required under the Revised Code section that sets forth the offense or any other Revised Code provision to impose a mandatory prison term for the offense, the court shall impose the required mandatory prison term as the minimum term imposed under division (A)(1)(a) or (2)(a) of this section, whichever is applicable. (D)(1) If a court imposes a prison term, other than a term of life imprisonment, for a felony of the first degree, for a felony of the second degree, for a felony sex offense, or for a felony of the third degree that is an offense of violence and that is not a felony sex offense, it shall include in the sentence a requirement that the offender be subject to a period of post-release control after the offender s release from imprisonment, in accordance with section 2967.28 of the Revised Code. If a court imposes a sentence including a prison term of a type described in this division on or after July 11, 2006, the failure of a court to include a post-release control requirement in the sentence pursuant to this division does not negate, limit, or otherwise affect the mandatory period of post-release control that is required for the offender under division (B) of section 2967.28 of the Revised Code. Section 2929.191 of the Revised Code applies if, prior to July 11, 2006, a court imposed a sentence including a prison term of a type described in this division and failed to include in the sentence pursuant to this division a statement regarding post-release control. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 69 (2) If a court imposes a prison term for a felony of the third, fourth, or fifth degree that is not subject to division (D)(1) of this section, it shall include in the sentence a requirement that the offender be subject to a period of post- release control after the offender s release from imprisonment, in accordance with that division, if the parole board determines that a period of post-release control is necessary. Section 2929.191 of the Revised Code applies if, prior to July 11, 2006, a court imposed a sentence including a prison term of a type described in this division and failed to include in the sentence pursuant to this division a statement regarding post-release control. (E) The court shall impose sentence upon the offender in accordance with section 2971.03 of the Revised Code, and Chapter 2971. of the Revised Code applies regarding the prison term or term of life imprisonment without parole imposed upon the offender and the service of that term of imprisonment if any of the following apply: (1) A person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violent sex offense or a designated homicide, assault, or kidnapping offense, and, in relation to that offense, the offender is adjudicated a sexually violent predator. (2) A person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)(1)(b) of section 2907.02 of the Revised Code committed on or after January 2, 2007, and either the court does not impose a sentence of life without parole when authorized pursuant to division (B) of section 2907.02 of the Revised Code, or division (B) of section 2907.02 of the Revised Code provides that the court shall not sentence the offender pursuant to section 2971.03 of the Revised Code. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 70 (3) A person is convicted of or pleads guilty to attempted rape committed on or after January 2, 2007, and a specification of the type described in section 2941.1418, 2941.1419, or 2941.1420 of the Revised Code. (4) A person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of section 2905.01 of the Revised Code committed on or after January 1, 2008, and that section requires the court to sentence the offender pursuant to section 2971.03 of the Revised Code. (5) A person is convicted of or pleads guilty to aggravated murder committed on or after January 1, 2008, and division (A)(2)(b)(ii) of section 2929.022, division (A)(1)(e), (C)(1)(a)(v), (C)(2)(a)(ii), (D)(2)(b), (D)(3)(a)(iv), or (E)(1) (d) of section 2929.03, or division (A) or (B) of section 2929.06 of the Revised Code requires the court to sentence the offender pursuant to division (B)(3) of section 2971.03 of the Revised Code. (6) A person is convicted of or pleads guilty to murder committed on or after January 1, 2008, and division (B)(2) of section 2929.02 of the Revised Code requires the court to sentence the offender pursuant to section 2971.03 of the Revised Code. (F) If a person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a felony is sentenced to a prison term or term of imprisonment under this section, sections 2929.02 to 2929.06 of the Revised Code, section 2929.142 of the Revised Code, section 2971.03 of the Revised Code, or any other provision of law, section 5120.163 of the Revised Code applies regarding the person while the person is confined in a state correctional institution. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 71 (G) If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony that is an offense of violence also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.142 of the Revised Code that charges the offender with having committed the felony while participating in a criminal gang, the court shall impose upon the offender an additional prison term of one, two, or three years. (H)(1) If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to aggravated murder, murder, or a felony of the first, second, or third degree that is an offense of violence also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.143 of the Revised Code that charges the offender with having committed the offense in a school safety zone or towards a person in a school safety zone, the court shall impose upon the offender an additional prison term of two years. The offender shall serve the additional two years consecutively to and prior to the prison term imposed for the underlying offense. (2)(a) If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony violation of section 2907.22, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25 of the Revised Code and to a specification of the type described in section 2941.1421 of the Revised Code and if the court imposes a prison term on the offender for the felony violation, the court may impose upon the offender an additional prison term as follows: (i) Subject to division (H)(2)(a)(ii) of this section, an additional prison term of one, two, three, four, five, or six months; (ii) If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more felony or misdemeanor violations of section 2907.22, 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25 of Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 72 the Revised Code and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.1421 of the Revised Code regarding one or more of those violations, an additional prison term of one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, or twelve months. (b) In lieu of imposing an additional prison term under division (H)(2)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing, continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal the duration of an additional prison term that the court could have imposed upon the offender under division (H)(2)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the prison term imposed for the felony violation of section 2907.22, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25 of the Revised Code and any residential sanction imposed for the violation under section 2929.16 of the Revised Code. A sanction imposed under this division shall be considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of section 2929.15 of the Revised Code, and all provisions of the Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of the use of the monitoring device. (I) At the time of sentencing, the court may recommend the offender for placement in a program of shock incarceration under section 5120.031 of the Revised Code or for placement in an Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 73 intensive program prison under section 5120.032 of the Revised Code, disapprove placement of the offender in a program of shock incarceration or an intensive program prison of that nature, or make no recommendation on placement of the offender. In no case shall the department of rehabilitation and correction place the offender in a program or prison of that nature unless the department determines as specified in section 5120.031 or 5120.032 of the Revised Code, whichever is applicable, that the offender is eligible for the placement. If the court disapproves placement of the offender in a program or prison of that nature, the department of rehabilitation and correction shall not place the offender in any program of shock incarceration or intensive program prison. If the court recommends placement of the offender in a program of shock incarceration or in an intensive program prison, and if the offender is subsequently placed in the recommended program or prison, the department shall notify the court of the placement and shall include with the notice a brief description of the placement. If the court recommends placement of the offender in a program of shock incarceration or in an intensive program prison and the department does not subsequently place the offender in the recommended program or prison, the department shall send a notice to the court indicating why the offender was not placed in the recommended program or prison. If the court does not make a recommendation under this division with respect to an offender and if the department determines as specified in section 5120.031 or 5120.032 of the Revised Code, whichever is applicable, that the offender is eligible for placement in a program or prison of that nature, Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 74 the department shall screen the offender and determine if there is an available program of shock incarceration or an intensive program prison for which the offender is suited. If there is an available program of shock incarceration or an intensive program prison for which the offender is suited, the department shall notify the court of the proposed placement of the offender as specified in section 5120.031 or 5120.032 of the Revised Code and shall include with the notice a brief description of the placement. The court shall have ten days from receipt of the notice to disapprove the placement. (J) If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to aggravated vehicular homicide in violation of division (A)(1) of section 2903.06 of the Revised Code and division (B)(2)(c) of that section applies, the person shall be sentenced pursuant to section 2929.142 of the Revised Code. (K)(1) The court shall impose an additional mandatory prison term of two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, or eleven years on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violent felony offense if the offender also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described in section 2941.1424 of the Revised Code that charges that the offender is a violent career criminal and had a firearm on or about the offender s person or under the offender s control while committing the presently charged violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to facilitate the offense. The offender shall serve the prison term imposed under this division consecutively to and prior to the prison term imposed for the underlying offense. The prison term shall not be reduced pursuant to section 2929.20 or 2967.19 or any other provision of Chapter 2967. or 5120. of the Revised Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 75 Code. A court may not impose more than one sentence under division (B)(2)(a) of this section and this division for acts committed as part of the same act or transaction. (2) As used in division (K)(1) of this section,  violent career criminal  and  violent felony offense  have the same meanings as in section 2923.132 of the Revised Code. Sec. 2929.22. (A) Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by division (G) of section 1547.99, division (B) of section 4510.14, division (G) of section 4511.19 of the Revised Code, or any other provision of the Revised Code a court that imposes a sentence under this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and principles of sentencing set forth in section 2929.21 of the Revised Code. Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the penalty for an offense or by any provision of sections 2929.23 to 2929.28 of the Revised Code, a court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any sanction or combination of sanctions under sections 2929.24 to 2929.28 of the Revised Code. The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an unnecessary burden on local government resources. (B)(1) In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the court shall consider all of the following factors: offenses; (a) The nature and circumstances of the offense or (b) Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 76 the offense or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal activity and that the offender s character and condition reveal a substantial risk that the offender will commit another offense; (c) Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense or offenses indicate that the offender s history, character, and condition reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that the offender s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive, compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the consequences; (d) Whether the victim s youth, age, disability, or other factor made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of the offense more serious; (e) Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and (c) of this section; (f) Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical condition that is traceable to the offender s service in the armed forces of the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender s commission of the offense or offenses; (g) The offender s military service record; (h) The results of any screening conducted in the case under division (A)(2)(e) of section 2935.032 of the Revised , if any such results are available Code . (2) In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may consider any other factors that are Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 77 relevant to achieving the purposes and principles of sentencing set forth in section 2929.21 of the Revised Code. (C) Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or a combination of community control sanctions under sections 2929.25, 2929.26, 2929.27, and 2929.28 of the Revised Code. A court may impose the longest jail term authorized under section 2929.24 of the Revised Code only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter the offender from committing a future crime. (D)(1) A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral or written statement made by the victim, the defendant, the defense attorney, or the prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by Chapter 2930. of the Revised Code. (2) At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the victim s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to sections 2743.51 to 2743.72 of the Revised Code. Sec. 2935.032. (A) Not later than ninety days after the effective date of this amendment   October 21, 1997 , each agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision that is served by any peace officer described in division (B)(1) (A) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code shall adopt, in accordance with division (E) of this section, written policies, written Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 78 procedures implementing the policies, and other written procedures for the peace officers who serve it to follow in implementing division (B)(3) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code and for their appropriate response to each report of an alleged incident of the offense of domestic violence or an alleged incident of the offense of violating a protection order. The policies and procedures shall conform to and be consistent with the provisions of divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code and divisions (B) to (D) of this section. Each policy adopted under this division shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following: (1) Provisions specifying that, if a peace officer who serves the agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision responds to an alleged incident of the offense of domestic violence, an alleged incident of the offense of violating a protection order, or an alleged incident of any other offense, both of the following apply: (a) If the officer determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that a person knowingly caused serious physical harm to another or to another s unborn or knowingly caused or attempted to cause physical harm to another or to another s unborn by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, then, regardless of whether the victim of the offense was a family or household member of the offender, the officer shall treat the incident as felonious assault, shall consider the offender to have committed and the victim to have been the victim of felonious assault, shall consider the offense that was committed to have been felonious assault in determining the manner in which the offender should be treated, and shall comply with whichever of the following is applicable: Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 79 (i) Unless the officer has reasonable cause to believe that, during the incident, the offender who committed the felonious assault and one or more other persons committed offenses against each other, the officer shall arrest the offender who committed the felonious assault pursuant to section 2935.03 of the Revised Code and shall detain that offender pursuant to that section until a warrant can be obtained, and the arrest shall be for felonious assault. (ii) If the officer has reasonable cause to believe that, during the incident, the offender who committed the felonious assault and one or more other persons committed offenses against each other, the officer shall determine in accordance with division (B)(3)(d) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code which of those persons is the primary physical aggressor. If the offender who committed the felonious assault is the primary physical aggressor, the officer shall arrest that offender for felonious assault pursuant to section 2935.03 of the Revised Code and shall detain that offender pursuant to that section until a warrant can be obtained, and the officer is not required to arrest but may arrest pursuant to section 2935.03 of the Revised Code any other person who committed an offense but who is not the primary physical aggressor. If the offender who committed the felonious assault is not the primary physical aggressor, the officer is not required to arrest that offender or any other person who committed an offense during the incident but may arrest any of them pursuant to section 2935.03 of the Revised Code and detain them pursuant to that section until a warrant can be obtained. (b) If the officer determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that a person, while under the influence of sudden passion or in a sudden fit of rage, either of which is Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 80 brought on by serious provocation occasioned by the victim that is reasonably sufficient to incite the person into using deadly force, knowingly caused serious physical harm to another or to another s unborn or knowingly caused or attempted to cause physical harm to another or to another s unborn by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, then, regardless of whether the victim of the offense was a family or household member of the offender, the officer shall treat the incident as aggravated assault, shall consider the offender to have committed and the victim to have been the victim of aggravated assault, shall consider the offense that was committed to have been aggravated assault in determining the manner in which the offender should be treated, and shall comply with whichever of the following is applicable: (i) Unless the officer has reasonable cause to believe that, during the incident, the offender who committed the aggravated assault and one or more other persons committed offenses against each other, the officer shall arrest the offender who committed the aggravated assault pursuant to section 2935.03 of the Revised Code and shall detain that offender pursuant to that section until a warrant can be obtained, and the arrest shall be for aggravated assault. (ii) If the officer has reasonable cause to believe that, during the incident, the offender who committed the aggravated assault and one or more other persons committed offenses against each other, the officer shall determine in accordance with division (B)(3)(d) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code which of those persons is the primary physical aggressor. If the offender who committed the aggravated assault is the primary physical aggressor, the officer shall arrest that offender for aggravated assault pursuant to section 2935.03 of the Revised Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 81 Code and shall detain that offender pursuant to that section until a warrant can be obtained, and the officer is not required to arrest but may arrest pursuant to section 2935.03 of the Revised Code any other person who committed an offense but who is not the primary physical aggressor. If the offender who committed the aggravated assault is not the primary physical aggressor, the officer is not required to arrest that offender or any other person who committed an offense during the incident but may arrest any of them pursuant to section 2935.03 of the Revised Code and detain them pursuant to that section until a warrant can be obtained. (2) Provisions requiring the peace officers who serve the agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision to do all of the following: (a) Respond without undue delay to a report of an alleged incident of the offense of domestic violence or the offense of violating a protection order; (b) If the alleged offender has been granted pretrial release from custody on a prior charge of the offense of domestic violence or the offense of violating a protection order and has violated one or more conditions of that pretrial release, document the facts and circumstances of the violation in the report to the law enforcement agency that the peace officer makes pursuant to division (D) of this section; (c) Separate the victim of the offense of domestic violence or the offense of violating a protection order and the alleged offender, conduct separate interviews with the victim and the alleged offender in separate locations, and take a written statement from the victim that indicates the frequency and severity of any prior incidents of physical abuse of the Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 82 victim by the alleged offender, the number of times the victim has called peace officers for assistance, and the disposition of those calls, if known; (d) Comply with divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code and with divisions (B), (C), and (D) of this section; (e) Screen the victim of the offense of domestic violence or the offense of violating a protection order using an evidence-based lethality assessment screening tool adopted under section 2935.033 of the Revised Code to determine if the case should be referred to local or regional domestic violence advocacy services, as required under section 2935.033 of the Revised Code; (f) Submit the results of a screening conducted under division (A)(2)(e) of this section to the court and prosecuting attorney having jurisdiction over any criminal complaint filed in connection with the offense when the investigative file, police report, and other information in that case is sent to the court and the prosecutor. (3) Sanctions to be imposed upon a peace officer who serves the agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision and who fails to comply with any provision in the policy or with division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code or division (B), (C), or (D) of this section. (4) Examples of reasons that a peace officer may consider for not arresting and detaining until a warrant can be obtained a person who allegedly committed the offense of domestic violence or the offense of violating a protection order when it is the preferred course of action in this state that the officer Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 83 arrest the alleged offender, as described in division (B)(3)(b) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code. (B)(1) Nothing in this section or in division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code precludes an agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision that is served by any peace officer described in division (B)(1) (A) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code from including in the policy it adopts under division (A) of this section either of the following types of provisions: (a) A provision that requires the peace officers who serve it, if they have reasonable grounds to believe that the offense of domestic violence or the offense of violating a protection order has been committed within the limits of the jurisdiction of the agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision and reasonable cause to believe that a particular person committed the offense, to arrest the alleged offender; (b) A provision that does not require the peace officers who serve it, if they have reasonable grounds to believe that the offense of domestic violence or the offense of violating a protection order has been committed within the limits of the jurisdiction of the agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision and reasonable cause to believe that a particular person committed the offense, to arrest the alleged offender, but that grants the officers less discretion in those circumstances in deciding whether to arrest the alleged offender than peace officers are granted by divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code. (2) If an agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision that is served by any peace officer described in division (B)(1) (A) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 84 includes in the policy it adopts under division (A) of this section a provision of the type described in division (B)(1)(a) or (b) of this section, the peace officers who serve the agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision shall comply with the provision in making arrests authorized under division (B)(1) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code. (C) When a peace officer described in division (B)(1) (A) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code investigates a report of an alleged incident of the offense of domestic violence or an alleged incident of the offense of violating a protection order, the officer shall do all of the following: (1) Complete a domestic violence report in accordance with division (D) of this section; (2) Advise the victim of the availability of a temporary protection order pursuant to section 2919.26 of the Revised Code, an emergency protection order pursuant to section 2919.261 of the Revised Code, or a protection order or consent agreement pursuant to section 3113.31 of the Revised Code; (3) Give the victim the officer s name, the officer s badge number if the officer has a badge and the badge has a number, the report number for the incident if a report number is available at the time of the officer s investigation, a telephone number that the victim can call for information about the case, the telephone number of a domestic violence shelter in the area, and information on any local victim advocate program. (D) A peace officer who investigates a report of an alleged incident of the offense of domestic violence or an alleged incident of the offense of violating a protection order shall make a written report of the incident whether or not an Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 85 arrest is made. The report shall document the officer s observations of the victim and the alleged offender, any visible injuries of the victim or alleged offender, any weapons at the scene, the actions of the alleged offender, any statements made by the victim or witnesses, and any other significant facts or circumstances. If the officer does not arrest and detain until a warrant can be obtained a person who allegedly committed the offense of domestic violence or the offense of violating a protection order when it is the preferred course of action in this state pursuant to division (B)(3)(b) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code that the alleged offender be arrested, the officer must articulate in the report a clear statement of the officer s reasons for not arresting and detaining that alleged offender until a warrant can be obtained. The officer shall submit the written report to the law enforcement agency to which the officer has been appointed, employed, or elected. (E) Each agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision that is required to adopt policies and procedures under division (A) of this section shall adopt those policies and procedures in conjunction and consultation with shelters in the community for victims of domestic violence and private organizations, law enforcement agencies, and other public agencies in the community that have expertise in the recognition and handling of domestic violence cases. (F) To the extent described in and in accordance with section 9.86 or 2744.03 of the Revised Code, a peace officer who arrests an offender for the offense of violating a protection order with respect to a protection order or consent agreement of this state or another state that on its face is valid is immune from liability in a civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House related to the arrest. Page 86 (G) Each agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision described in division (A) of this section that arrests an offender for an alleged incident of the offense of domestic violence or an alleged incident of the offense of violating a protection order shall consider referring the case to federal authorities for prosecution under 18 U.S.C. 2261 if the incident constitutes a violation of federal law. (H) As used in this section: (1)  Another s unborn  has the same meaning as in section 2903.09 of the Revised Code. (2)  Dangerous ordnance  and  deadly weapon  have the same meanings as in section 2923.11 of the Revised Code. (3)  The offense of violating a protection order  includes the former offense of violating a protection order or consent agreement or anti-stalking protection order as set forth in section 2919.27 of the Revised Code as it existed prior to the effective date of this amendment   October 21, 1997 . Sec. 2935.033. (A) As used in this section,  lethality assessment screening tool  means a lethality assessment screening tool included in the list of validated and evidence- based lethality assessment screening tools by the attorney general pursuant to division (C) of section 109.744 of the Revised Code. (B) Not later than ninety days after the effective date of this section, the chief law enforcement officer of each agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision that is served by any peace officer described in division (A) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code shall identify local and regional domestic Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 87 violence advocacy services to which individuals experiencing domestic violence or violation of a protection order and determined to be high risk may be referred. (C) Each law enforcement agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision that is served by any peace officer described in division (A) of section 2935.03 of the Revised Code shall adopt written policies, written procedures implementing the policies, and any other necessary written procedures for the peace officers who serve the agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision to follow in screening alleged incidents of the offense of domestic violence and alleged incidents of the offense of violating a protection order for referral to local or regional domestic violence advocacy services. The policies and procedures shall include all of the following: (1) A requirement that peace officers who serve the agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision automatically refer any case of domestic violence that involves an allegation of strangulation to local or regional domestic violence advocacy services and provide the victim of an alleged strangulation with the following warning:  I have a duty to warn you that strangulation is serious and can cause internal injuries, brain damage, and delayed health consequences such as strokes, thyroid issues, miscarriage, and death. Research shows that if you are strangled one time, you are more likely to be killed by your partner. I strongly encourage you to seek immediate medical attention at an emergency department and to ask for support from an advocate.  (2) A lethality assessment screening tool, selected by the law enforcement agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision from those qualified by the attorney general under Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 88 division (C) of section 109.774 of the Revised Code, to be used by peace officers to screen victims of alleged incidents of domestic violence and alleged incidents of violating a protection order for referral to local or regional domestic violence advocacy services; (3) Procedures for connecting high risk victims to domestic violence advocacy programs, community and faith-based programs, nonprofit mental health programs, and other programs that may be able to assist high risk victims; (4) Procedures for local or regional domestic violence advocacy services to consult with prosecutors on charges and negotiated plea agreements in cases referred to the services. Sec. 2935.0332935.034. (A) Any peace officer may render assistance to any federal law enforcement officer who has arrest authority under the  Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA Patriot Act) Act of 2001,  Pub. L. No. 107-056, 115 Stat. 272, as amended, if both of the following apply: (1) There is a threat of imminent physical danger to the federal law enforcement officer, a threat of physical harm to another person, or any other serious emergency situation present. (2) Either the federal law enforcement officer requests emergency assistance or it appears that the federal law enforcement officer is unable to request assistance, and the circumstances reasonably indicate that assistance is appropriate. (B)  Federal law enforcement officer  has the same meaning as in section 9.88 of the Revised Code. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 89 Sec. 2937.23. (A)(1) In a case involving a felony or a violation of section 2903.11, 2903.12, or 2903.13 of the Revised Code when the victim of the offense is a peace officer, the judge or magistrate shall fix the amount of bail. (2) In a case involving a misdemeanor or a violation of a municipal ordinance and not involving a felony or a violation of section 2903.11, 2903.12, or 2903.13 of the Revised Code when the victim of the offense is a peace officer, the judge, magistrate, or clerk of the court may fix the amount of bail and may do so in accordance with a schedule previously fixed by the judge or magistrate. If the judge, magistrate, or clerk of the court is not readily available, the sheriff, deputy sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal, police officer, or jailer having custody of the person charged may fix the amount of bail in accordance with a schedule previously fixed by the judge or magistrate and shall take the bail only in the county courthouse, the municipal or township building, or the county or municipal jail. (3) In all cases, the bail shall be fixed with consideration of the seriousness of the offense charged, the previous criminal record of the defendant,   the results of any screening conducted in the case under division (A)(2)(e) of section 2935.032 of the Revised Code, if any such results are available, and the probability of the defendant appearing at the trial of the case. (B) In any case involving an alleged violation of section 2903.211 of the Revised Code or of a municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to that section, the court shall determine whether it will order an evaluation of the mental condition of the defendant pursuant to section 2919.271 of the Revised Code Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 90 and, if it decides to so order, shall issue the order requiring the evaluation before it sets bail for the person charged with the violation. In any case involving an alleged violation of section 2919.27 of the Revised Code or of a municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to that section and in which the court finds that either of the following criteria applies, the court shall determine whether it will order an evaluation of the mental condition of the defendant pursuant to section 2919.271 of the Revised Code and, if it decides to so order, shall issue the order requiring that evaluation before it sets bail for the person charged with the violation: (1) Regarding an alleged violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to section 2919.26 or 3113.31 of the Revised Code, that the violation allegedly involves conduct by the defendant that caused physical harm to the person or property of a family or household member covered by the order or agreement or conduct by that defendant that caused a family or household member to believe that the defendant would cause physical harm to that member or that member s property; (2) Regarding an alleged violation of a protection order issued pursuant to section 2903.213 or 2903.214 of the Revised Code, or a protection order issued by a court of another state, as defined in section 2919.27 of the Revised Code, that the violation allegedly involves conduct by the defendant that caused physical harm to the person or property of the person covered by the order or conduct by that defendant that caused the person covered by the order to believe that the defendant would cause physical harm to that person or that person s property. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 91 (C) As used in this section,  peace officer  has the same meaning as in section 2935.01 of the Revised Code. Sec. 3113.31. (A) As used in this section: (1)  Domestic violence  means any of the following: (a) The occurrence of one or more of the following acts against a family or household member: (i) Attempting to cause or recklessly causing bodily injury; (ii) Placing another person by the threat of force in fear of imminent serious physical harm or committing a violation of section 2903.211 or 2911.211 of the Revised Code; (iii) Committing any act with respect to a child that would result in the child being an abused child, as defined in section 2151.031 of the Revised Code; (iv) Committing a sexually oriented offense. (b) The occurrence of one or more of the acts identified in divisions (A)(1)(a)(i) to (iv) of this section against a person with whom the respondent is or was in a dating relationship. (2)  Court  means the domestic relations division of the court of common pleas in counties that have a domestic relations division and the court of common pleas in counties that do not have a domestic relations division, or the juvenile division of the court of common pleas of the county in which the person to be protected by a protection order issued or a consent agreement approved under this section resides if the respondent is less than eighteen years of age. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House following: (3)  Family or household member  means any of the (a) Any of the following who is residing with or has resided with the respondent: (i) A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of the respondent; (ii) A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the respondent, or another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the respondent; (iii) A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the respondent, or another person related by consanguinity or affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the respondent; (iv) A child whose guardian or custodian is a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the respondent. (b) The natural parent of any child of whom the respondent is the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent. question. section. (4)  Person living as a spouse  means a person who is living or has lived with the respondent in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the respondent, or who otherwise has cohabited with the respondent within five years prior to the date of the alleged occurrence of the act in (5)  Victim advocate  means a person who provides support and assistance for a person who files a petition under this (6)  Sexually oriented offense  has the same meaning as in Page 92 Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 93 section 2950.01 of the Revised Code. (7)  Companion animal  has the same meaning as in section 959.131 of the Revised Code. (8)  Dating relationship  means a relationship between individuals who have, or have had, a relationship of a romantic or intimate nature.  Dating relationship  does not include a casual acquaintanceship or ordinary fraternization in a business or social context. (9)  Person with whom the respondent is or was in a dating relationship  means an adult who, at the time of the conduct in question, is in a dating relationship with the respondent who also is an adult or who, within the twelve months preceding the conduct in question, has had a dating relationship with the respondent who also is an adult. (10)  Child,   custodian,  and  guardian  have the same meanings as in section 3109.51 of the Revised Code. (B) The court has jurisdiction over all proceedings under this section. The petitioner s right to relief under this section is not affected by the petitioner s leaving the residence or household to avoid further domestic violence. (C)(1) A person may seek relief under this section on the person s own behalf, or any parent or adult household member may seek relief under this section on behalf of any other family or household member, by filing a petition with the court. The petition shall contain or state: (1)(a) An allegation that the respondent engaged in domestic violence against a family or household member of the respondent or against a person with whom the respondent is or was in a dating relationship, including a description of the Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 94 nature and extent of the domestic violence; (2) (b) The relationship of the respondent to the petitioner, and to the victim if other than the petitioner; (3) (c) If the petition is for protection of a person with whom the respondent is or was in a dating relationship, the facts upon which the court may conclude that a dating relationship existed between the person to be protected and the respondent; (4) (d) A request for relief under this section. (2) The petition may contain and the court shall consider any of the following: (a) An allegation that the respondent has previously engaged in domestic violence against a person to be protected; (b) Any previous conviction of or plea of guilty to the offense of domestic violence by the respondent where the victim was a person to be protected by the order. (D)(1) If a person who files a petition pursuant to this section requests an ex parte order, the court shall hold an ex parte hearing on the same day that the petition is filed. The court, for good cause shown at the ex parte hearing, may enter any temporary orders, with or without bond, including, but not limited to, an order described in division (E)(1)(a), (b), or (c) of this section, that the court finds necessary to protect the family or household member or the person with whom the respondent is or was in a dating relationship from domestic violence. Immediate and present danger of domestic violence to the family or household member or to the person with whom the respondent is or was in a dating relationship constitutes good cause for purposes of this section. Immediate and present danger Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 95 includes, but is not limited to, situations in which the respondent has threatened the family or household member or person with whom the respondent is or was in a dating relationship with bodily harm, in which the respondent has threatened the family or household member or person with whom the respondent is or was in a dating relationship with a sexually oriented offense, or in which the respondent previously has been convicted of, pleaded guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for an offense that constitutes domestic violence against the family or household member or person with whom the respondent is or was in a dating relationship. (2)(a) If the court, after an ex parte hearing, issues an order described in division (E)(1)(b) or (c) of this section, the court shall schedule a full hearing for a date that is within seven court days after the ex parte hearing. If any other type of protection order that is authorized under division (E) of this section is issued by the court after an ex parte hearing, the court shall schedule a full hearing for a date that is within ten court days after the ex parte hearing. The court shall give the respondent notice of, and an opportunity to be heard at, the full hearing. The court shall hold the full hearing on the date scheduled under this division unless the court grants a continuance of the hearing in accordance with this division. Under any of the following circumstances or for any of the following reasons, the court may grant a continuance of the full hearing to a reasonable time determined by the court: hearing. (i) Prior to the date scheduled for the full hearing under this division, the respondent has not been served with the petition filed pursuant to this section and notice of the full Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 96 (ii) The parties consent to the continuance. (iii) The continuance is needed to allow a party to obtain counsel. (iv) The continuance is needed for other good cause. (b) An ex parte order issued under this section does not expire because of a failure to serve notice of the full hearing upon the respondent before the date set for the full hearing under division (D)(2)(a) of this section or because the court grants a continuance under that division. (3) If a person who files a petition pursuant to this section does not request an ex parte order, or if a person requests an ex parte order but the court does not issue an ex parte order after an ex parte hearing, the court shall proceed as in a normal civil action and grant a full hearing on the matter. (E)(1) After an ex parte or full hearing, the court may grant any protection order, with or without bond, or approve any consent agreement to bring about a cessation of domestic violence against the family or household members or persons with whom the respondent is or was in a dating relationship. The order or agreement may: (a) Direct the respondent to refrain from abusing or from committing sexually oriented offenses against the family or household members or persons with whom the respondent is or was in a dating relationship; (b) With respect to a petition involving family or household members, grant possession of the residence or household to the petitioner or other family or household member, to the exclusion of the respondent, by evicting the respondent, Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 97 when the residence or household is owned or leased solely by the petitioner or other family or household member, or by ordering the respondent to vacate the premises, when the residence or household is jointly owned or leased by the respondent, and the petitioner or other family or household member; (c) With respect to a petition involving family or household members, when the respondent has a duty to support the petitioner or other family or household member living in the residence or household and the respondent is the sole owner or lessee of the residence or household, grant possession of the residence or household to the petitioner or other family or household member, to the exclusion of the respondent, by ordering the respondent to vacate the premises, or, in the case of a consent agreement, allow the respondent to provide suitable, alternative housing; (d) With respect to a petition involving family or household members, temporarily allocate parental rights and responsibilities for the care of, or establish temporary parenting time rights with regard to, minor children, if no other court has determined, or is determining, the allocation of parental rights and responsibilities for the minor children or parenting time rights; (e) With respect to a petition involving family or household members, require the respondent to maintain support, if the respondent customarily provides for or contributes to the support of the family or household member, or if the respondent has a duty to support the petitioner or family or household member; (f) Require the respondent, petitioner, victim of domestic violence, or any combination of those persons, to seek Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House counseling; Page 98 (g) Require the respondent to refrain from entering the residence, school, business, or place of employment of the petitioner or, with respect to a petition involving family or household members, a family or household member; (h) Grant other relief that the court considers equitable and fair, including, but not limited to, ordering the respondent to permit the use of a motor vehicle by the petitioner or, with respect to a petition involving family or household members, other family or household members and the apportionment of household and family personal property; (i) Require that the respondent not remove, damage, hide, harm, or dispose of any companion animal owned or possessed by the petitioner; (j) Authorize the petitioner to remove a companion animal owned by the petitioner from the possession of the respondent; (k) Require a wireless service transfer in accordance with sections 3113.45 to 3113.459 of the Revised Code. (2) If a protection order has been issued pursuant to this section in a prior action involving the respondent and the petitioner or, with respect to a petition involving family or household members, one or more of the family or household members or victims, the court may include in a protection order that it issues a prohibition against the respondent returning to the residence or household. If it includes a prohibition against the respondent returning to the residence or household in the order, it also shall include in the order provisions of the type described in division (E)(7) of this section. This division does not preclude the court from including in a protection order or Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 99 consent agreement, in circumstances other than those described in this division, a requirement that the respondent be evicted from or vacate the residence or household or refrain from entering the residence, school, business, or place of employment of the petitioner or, with respect to a petition involving family or household members, a family or household member, and, if the court includes any requirement of that type in an order or agreement, the court also shall include in the order provisions of the type described in division (E)(7) of this section. (3)(a) Any protection order issued or consent agreement approved under this section shall be valid until a date certain, but not later than five years from the date of its issuance or approval, or not later than the date a respondent who is less than eighteen years of age attains nineteen years of age, unless modified or terminated as provided in division (E)(8) of this section. (b) With respect to an order involving family or household members, subject to the limitation on the duration of an order or agreement set forth in division (E)(3)(a) of this section, any order under division (E)(1)(d) of this section shall terminate on the date that a court in an action for divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation brought by the petitioner or respondent issues an order allocating parental rights and responsibilities for the care of children or on the date that a juvenile court in an action brought by the petitioner or respondent issues an order awarding legal custody of minor children. Subject to the limitation on the duration of an order or agreement set forth in division (E)(3)(a) of this section, any order under division (E)(1)(e) of this section shall terminate on the date that a court in an action for Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 100 divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation brought by the petitioner or respondent issues a support order or on the date that a juvenile court in an action brought by the petitioner or respondent issues a support order. (c) Any protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to this section may be renewed in the same manner as the original order or agreement was issued or approved. (4) A court may not issue a protection order that requires a petitioner to do or to refrain from doing an act that the court may require a respondent to do or to refrain from doing under division (E)(1)(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), or (h) of this section unless all of the following apply: (a) The respondent files a separate petition for a protection order in accordance with this section. (b) The petitioner is served notice of the respondent s petition at least forty-eight hours before the court holds a hearing with respect to the respondent s petition, or the petitioner waives the right to receive this notice. (c) If the petitioner has requested an ex parte order pursuant to division (D) of this section, the court does not delay any hearing required by that division beyond the time specified in that division in order to consolidate the hearing with a hearing on the petition filed by the respondent. (d) After a full hearing at which the respondent presents evidence in support of the request for a protection order and the petitioner is afforded an opportunity to defend against that evidence, the court determines that the petitioner has committed an act of domestic violence or has violated a temporary Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 101 protection order issued pursuant to section 2919.26 of the Revised Code, that both the petitioner and the respondent acted primarily as aggressors, and that neither the petitioner nor the respondent acted primarily in self-defense. (5) No protection order issued or consent agreement approved under this section shall in any manner affect title to any real property. (6)(a) With respect to an order involving family or household members, if a petitioner, or the child of a petitioner, who obtains a protection order or consent agreement pursuant to division (E)(1) of this section or a temporary protection order pursuant to section 2919.26 of the Revised Code and is the subject of a parenting time order issued pursuant to section 3109.051 or 3109.12 of the Revised Code or a visitation or companionship order issued pursuant to section 3109.051, 3109.11, or 3109.12 of the Revised Code or division (E)(1)(d) of this section granting parenting time rights to the respondent, the court may require the public children services agency of the county in which the court is located to provide supervision of the respondent s exercise of parenting time or visitation or companionship rights with respect to the child for a period not to exceed nine months, if the court makes the following findings of fact: supervision. (i) The child is in danger from the respondent; (ii) No other person or agency is available to provide the (b) A court that requires an agency to provide supervision pursuant to division (E)(6)(a) of this section shall order the respondent to reimburse the agency for the cost of providing the Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 102 supervision, if it determines that the respondent has sufficient income or resources to pay that cost. (7)(a) If a protection order issued or consent agreement approved under this section includes a requirement that the respondent be evicted from or vacate the residence or household or refrain from entering the residence, school, business, or place of employment of the petitioner or, with respect to a petition involving family or household members, a family or household member, the order or agreement shall state clearly that the order or agreement cannot be waived or nullified by an invitation to the respondent from the petitioner or other family or household member to enter the residence, school, business, or place of employment or by the respondent s entry into one of those places otherwise upon the consent of the petitioner or other family or household member. (b) Division (E)(7)(a) of this section does not limit any discretion of a court to determine that a respondent charged with a violation of section 2919.27 of the Revised Code, with a violation of a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to that section, or with contempt of court, which charge is based on an alleged violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement approved under this section, did not commit the violation or was not in contempt of court. (8)(a) The court may modify or terminate as provided in division (E)(8) of this section a protection order or consent agreement that was issued after a full hearing under this section. The court that issued the protection order or approved the consent agreement shall hear a motion for modification or termination of the protection order or consent agreement pursuant to division (E)(8) of this section. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 103 (b) Either the petitioner or the respondent of the original protection order or consent agreement may bring a motion for modification or termination of a protection order or consent agreement that was issued or approved after a full hearing. The court shall require notice of the motion to be made as provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure. If the petitioner for the original protection order or consent agreement has requested that the petitioner s address be kept confidential, the court shall not disclose the address to the respondent of the original protection order or consent agreement or any other person, except as otherwise required by law. The moving party has the burden of proof to show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that modification or termination of the protection order or consent agreement is appropriate because either the protection order or consent agreement is no longer needed or because the terms of the original protection order or consent agreement are no longer appropriate. (c) In considering whether to modify or terminate a protection order or consent agreement issued or approved under this section, the court shall consider all relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) Whether the petitioner consents to modification or termination of the protection order or consent agreement; (ii) Whether the petitioner fears the respondent; (iii) The current nature of the relationship between the petitioner and the respondent; (iv) The circumstances of the petitioner and respondent, including the relative proximity of the petitioner s and respondent s workplaces and residences and whether the Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 104 petitioner and respondent have minor children together; (v) Whether the respondent has complied with the terms and conditions of the original protection order or consent agreement; (vi) Whether the respondent has a continuing involvement with illegal drugs or alcohol; (vii) Whether the respondent has been convicted of, pleaded guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for an offense of violence since the issuance of the protection order or approval of the consent agreement; (viii) Whether any other protection orders, consent agreements, restraining orders, or no contact orders have been issued against the respondent pursuant to this section, section 2919.26 of the Revised Code, any other provision of state law, or the law of any other state; (ix) Whether the respondent has participated in any domestic violence treatment, intervention program, or other counseling addressing domestic violence and whether the respondent has completed the treatment, program, or counseling; (x) The time that has elapsed since the protection order was issued or since the consent agreement was approved; (xi) The age and health of the respondent; (xii) When the last incident of abuse, threat of harm, or commission of a sexually oriented offense occurred or other relevant information concerning the safety and protection of the petitioner or other protected parties. (d) If a protection order or consent agreement is modified or terminated as provided in division (E)(8) of this section, Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 105 the court shall issue copies of the modified or terminated order or agreement as provided in division (F) of this section. A petitioner may also provide notice of the modification or termination to the judicial and law enforcement officials in any county other than the county in which the order or agreement is modified or terminated as provided in division (N) of this section. motion. (e) If the respondent moves for modification or termination of a protection order or consent agreement pursuant to this section and the court denies the motion, the court may assess costs against the respondent for the filing of the (9) Any protection order issued or any consent agreement approved pursuant to this section shall include a provision that the court will automatically seal all of the records of the proceeding in which the order is issued or agreement approved on the date the respondent attains the age of nineteen years unless the petitioner provides the court with evidence that the respondent has not complied with all of the terms of the protection order or consent agreement. The protection order or consent agreement shall specify the date when the respondent attains the age of nineteen years. (F)(1) A copy of any protection order, or consent agreement, that is issued, approved, modified, or terminated under this section shall be issued by the court to the petitioner, to the respondent, and to all law enforcement agencies that have jurisdiction to enforce the order or agreement. The court shall direct that a copy of an order be delivered to the respondent on the same day that the order is entered. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 106 (2) Upon the issuance of a protection order or the approval of a consent agreement under this section, the court shall provide the parties to the order or agreement with the following notice orally or by form:  NOTICE As a result of this order or consent agreement, it may be unlawful for you to possess or purchase a firearm, including a rifle, pistol, or revolver, or ammunition pursuant to federal law under 18 U.S.C. 922(g)(8) for the duration of this order or consent agreement. If you have any questions whether this law makes it illegal for you to possess or purchase a firearm or ammunition, you should consult an attorney.  (3) All law enforcement agencies shall establish and maintain an index for the protection orders and the approved consent agreements delivered to the agencies pursuant to division (F)(1) of this section. With respect to each order and consent agreement delivered, each agency shall note on the index the date and time that it received the order or consent agreement. (4) Regardless of whether the petitioner has registered the order or agreement in the county in which the officer s agency has jurisdiction pursuant to division (N) of this section, any officer of a law enforcement agency shall enforce a protection order issued or consent agreement approved by any court in this state in accordance with the provisions of the order or agreement, including removing the respondent from the premises, if appropriate. (G)(1) Any proceeding under this section shall be conducted in accordance with the Rules of Civil Procedure, Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 107 except that an order under this section may be obtained with or without bond. An order issued under this section, other than an ex parte order, that grants a protection order or approves a consent agreement, that refuses to grant a protection order or approve a consent agreement that modifies or terminates a protection order or consent agreement, or that refuses to modify or terminate a protection order or consent agreement, is a final, appealable order. The remedies and procedures provided in this section are in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other available civil or criminal remedies. (2) If as provided in division (G)(1) of this section an order issued under this section, other than an ex parte order, refuses to grant a protection order, the court, on its own motion, shall order that the ex parte order issued under this section and all of the records pertaining to that ex parte order be sealed after either of the following occurs: (a) No party has exercised the right to appeal pursuant to Rule 4 of the Rules of Appellate Procedure. (b) All appellate rights have been exhausted. (H) The filing of proceedings under this section does not excuse a person from filing any report or giving any notice required by section 2151.421 of the Revised Code or by any other law. When a petition under this section alleges domestic violence against minor children, the court shall report the fact, or cause reports to be made, to a county, township, or municipal peace officer under section 2151.421 of the Revised Code. (I) Any law enforcement agency that investigates a domestic dispute shall provide information to the family or Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 108 household members involved, or the persons in the dating relationship who are involved, whichever is applicable regarding the relief available under this section and, for family or household members, section 2919.26 of the Revised Code. (J)(1) Subject to divisions (E)(8)(e) and (J)(2) of this section and regardless of whether a protection order is issued or a consent agreement is approved by a court of another county or a court of another state, no court or unit of state or local government shall charge the petitioner any fee, cost, deposit, or money in connection with the filing of a petition pursuant to this section or in connection with the filing, issuance, registration, modification, enforcement, dismissal, withdrawal, or service of a protection order, consent agreement, or witness subpoena or for obtaining a certified copy of a protection order or consent agreement. (2) Regardless of whether a protection order is issued or a consent agreement is approved pursuant to this section, the court may assess costs against the respondent in connection with the filing, issuance, registration, modification, enforcement, dismissal, withdrawal, or service of a protection order, consent agreement, or witness subpoena or for obtaining a certified copy of a protection order or consent agreement. (K)(1) The court shall comply with Chapters 3119., 3121., 3123., and 3125. of the Revised Code when it makes or modifies an order for child support under this section. (2) If any person required to pay child support under an order made under this section on or after April 15, 1985, or modified under this section on or after December 31, 1986, is found in contempt of court for failure to make support payments under the order, the court that makes the finding, in addition Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 109 to any other penalty or remedy imposed, shall assess all court costs arising out of the contempt proceeding against the person and require the person to pay any reasonable attorney s fees of any adverse party, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the act of contempt. (L)(1) A person who violates a protection order issued or a consent agreement approved under this section is subject to the following sanctions: (a) Criminal prosecution or a delinquent child proceeding for a violation of section 2919.27 of the Revised Code, if the violation of the protection order or consent agreement constitutes a violation of that section; (b) Punishment for contempt of court. (2) The punishment of a person for contempt of court for violation of a protection order issued or a consent agreement approved under this section does not bar criminal prosecution of the person or a delinquent child proceeding concerning the person for a violation of section 2919.27 of the Revised Code. However, a person punished for contempt of court is entitled to credit for the punishment imposed upon conviction of or adjudication as a delinquent child for a violation of that section, and a person convicted of or adjudicated a delinquent child for a violation of that section shall not subsequently be punished for contempt of court arising out of the same activity. (M) In all stages of a proceeding under this section, a petitioner may be accompanied by a victim advocate. (N)(1) A petitioner who obtains a protection order or consent agreement under this section or a temporary protection order under section 2919.26 of the Revised Code may provide Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 110 notice of the issuance or approval of the order or agreement to the judicial and law enforcement officials in any county other than the county in which the order is issued or the agreement is approved by registering that order or agreement in the other county pursuant to division (N)(2) of this section and filing a copy of the registered order or registered agreement with a law enforcement agency in the other county in accordance with that division. A person who obtains a protection order issued by a court of another state may provide notice of the issuance of the order to the judicial and law enforcement officials in any county of this state by registering the order in that county pursuant to section 2919.272 of the Revised Code and filing a copy of the registered order with a law enforcement agency in that county. (2) A petitioner may register a temporary protection order, protection order, or consent agreement in a county other than the county in which the court that issued the order or approved the agreement is located in the following manner: (a) The petitioner shall obtain a certified copy of the order or agreement from the clerk of the court that issued the order or approved the agreement and present that certified copy to the clerk of the court of common pleas or the clerk of a municipal court or county court in the county in which the order or agreement is to be registered. (b) Upon accepting the certified copy of the order or agreement for registration, the clerk of the court of common pleas, municipal court, or county court shall place an endorsement of registration on the order or agreement and give the petitioner a copy of the order or agreement that bears that proof of registration. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 111 (3) The clerk of each court of common pleas, the clerk of each municipal court, and the clerk of each county court shall maintain a registry of certified copies of temporary protection orders, protection orders, or consent agreements that have been issued or approved by courts in other counties and that have been registered with the clerk. (O) Nothing in this section prohibits the domestic relations division of a court of common pleas in counties that have a domestic relations division or a court of common pleas in counties that do not have a domestic relations division from designating a minor child as a protected party on a protection order or consent agreement. Section 2. That existing sections 109.744, 109.803, 2903.01, 2919.25, 2919.27, 2929.12, 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22, 2935.032, 2937.23, 3113.31, and 2935.033 of the Revised Code are hereby repealed. Section 3. The General Assembly, in enacting this act, encourages prosecuting attorneys, in cases related to an incident of domestic violence, to consider the totality of the circumstances, to review all of the evidence in the case, and to resist seeking voluntary dismissal or an entry of nolle prosequi based solely on the victim s wishes, unless justice demands otherwise. Section 4. The General Assembly respectfully requests the Ohio Supreme Court to review the Ohio Rules of Evidence to consider how the Rules may better aid victims of domestic violence without diminishing the fundamental fairness to alleged perpetrators of domestic violence. Section 5. This act shall be known as Aisha s Law. Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 112 Section 6. (A) There is hereby created the Domestic Violence Prosecution Study Committee consisting of the following ten members: (1) The following five members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives: (a) One member who is a domestic violence survivor; (b) One member who is a domestic violence advocate; (c) One member who is a prosecutor who handles domestic violence cases; (d) One member who is a member of the judiciary with experience handling domestic violence cases; (e) One member who is a member of the House of Representatives. (2) The following five members appointed by the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives: (a) One member who is a domestic violence survivor; (b) One member who is a domestic violence advocate; (c) One member who is a prosecutor who handles domestic violence cases; (d) One member who is a member of the judiciary with experience handling domestic violence cases; (e) One member who is a member of the House of Representatives. (B) The Study Committee shall examine policies to protect victims of domestic violence throughout the judicial process, including an investigation into the prevalence of dropped or Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 113 amended domestic violence charges, and the cases in which a charge of domestic violence was dropped and the victim of domestic violence later became the victim of a homicide. (C) The Speaker and Minority Leader shall make appointments to the Study Committee as soon as practicable after the effective date of this section and the Study Committee shall produce a report of its findings not later than one year after the effective date of this section. The Study Committee shall submit that report to the Governor, the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Minority Leader of the Senate, and the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives. Upon submission of the report, the Study Committee shall cease to exist. Section 7. That Section 221.10 of H.B. 166 of the 133rd General Assembly be amended to read as follows: Sec. 221.10. A AGO ATTORNEY GENERAL B General Revenue Fund C GRF 055321 Operating Expenses $    60,646,591 $   62,958,461 D GRF 055405 Law-Related Education $        68,950 $       68,950 E GRF 055406 BCIRS Lease Rental $     2,515,100 $    2,513,400 Payments Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 114 F GRF 055411 County Sheriffs  Pay $       983,341 $    1,000,554 G GRF 055415 County Prosecutors  Pay $     1,247,225 $    1,278,630 H GRF 055431 Drug Abuse Response Team $     1,500,000 $    1,500,000 I GRF 055432 Drug Testing Equipment $       968,602 $            0 J GRF 055434 ICAC Task Force $       500,000 $      500,000 K GRF 055501 Rape Crisis Centers $     4,800,000 $    4,800,000 L GRF 055502 School Safety Training $    12,000,000 $   12,000,000 M GRF 055504 Domestic Violence $     1,000,000 $    1,000,000 N GRF 055505 Pike County Capital Case $     1,000,000 $            0 O TOTAL GRF General Revenue Fund $    87,229,809 $   87,619,995 P Dedicated Purpose Fund Group Q 1060 055612 Attorney General $    58,426,184 $   60,018,182 Supplement Supplement Grants Grants Programs Operating Shelter R 4020 055616 Victims of Crime $    20,624,291 $   20,624,291 S 4170 055621 Domestic Violence $        25,000 $       25,000 Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 115 T 4180 055615 Charitable Foundations $     8,286,000 $    8,286,000 U 4190 055623 Claims Section $    41,500,000 $   42,600,000 V 4200 055603 Attorney General $     2,432,925 $    2,432,925 Antitrust W 4210 055617 Police Officers  $     2,182,062 $    2,250,000 Training Academy Fee 2,332,062 X 4L60 055606 DARE Programs $     3,814,289 $    3,814,289 Y 4Y70 055608 Title Defect Recision $     1,013,751 $    1,013,751 Z 4Z20 055609 BCI Asset Forfeiture and $     2,500,000 $    2,500,000 AA 5900 055633 Peace Officer Private $        95,325 $       95,325 AB 5A90 055618 Telemarketing Fraud $        10,000 $       10,000 AC 5LR0 055655 Peace Officer Training - $     5,355,079 $    5,529,409 AD 5MP0 055657 Peace Officer Training $       325,000 $      325,000 AE 5TL0 055659 Organized Crime Law $       100,000 $      100,000 AF 6310 055637 Consumer Protection $     9,276,000 $    9,276,000 Cost Reimbursement Security Training Enforcement Casino Commission Enforcement Trust Enforcement Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 116 AG 6590 055641 Solid and Hazardous $       328,728 $      328,728 AH U087 055402 Tobacco Settlement $     2,650,000 $    2,650,000 Waste Background Investigations Oversight, Administration, and Enforcement AI TOTAL DPF Dedicated Purpose Fund Group $   158,944,634 $  161,878,900 159,094,634 AJ Internal Service Activity Fund Group AK 1950 055660 Workers  Compensation $     7,416,045 $    6,898,040 Section AL TOTAL ISA Internal Service Activity $     7,416,045 $    6,898,040 Fund Group AM Holding Account Fund Group AN R004 055631 General Holding Account $     1,000,000 $    1,000,000 AO R005 055632 Antitrust Settlements $     1,000,000 $    1,000,000 AP R018 055630 Consumer Frauds $     1,000,000 $    1,000,000 AQ R042 055601 Organized Crime $       750,000 $      750,000 AR R054 055650 Collection Payment $     4,500,000 $    4,500,000 Commission Distributions Redistribution Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 117 AS TOTAL HLD Holding Account Fund Group $     8,250,000 $    8,250,000 AT Federal Fund Group AU 3060 055620 Medicaid Fraud Control $     8,961,419 $    8,961,419 AV 3830 055634 Crime Victims Assistance $   109,971,344 $  110,000,000 AW 3E50 055638 Attorney General Pass- $     4,017,209 $    4,020,999 AX 3FV0 055656 Crime Victim $     4,600,000 $    4,600,000 AY 3R60 055613 Attorney General Federal $     2,799,999 $    2,799,999 Through Funds Compensation Funds AZ TOTAL FED Federal Funds Group $   130,349,971 $  130,382,417 BA TOTAL ALL BUDGET FUND GROUPS $   392,190,459 $  395,029,352 392,340,459 Section 8. That existing Section 221.10 of H.B. 166 of the 133rd General Assembly is hereby repealed. Section 9. The General Assembly, applying the principle stated in division (B) of section 1.52 of the Revised Code that amendments are to be harmonized if reasonably capable of simultaneous operation, finds that the following sections, presented in this act as composites of the sections as amended by the acts indicated, are the resulting versions of the sections in effect prior to the effective date of the sections as presented in this act: Sub. H. B. No. 3 As Passed by the House Page 118 Section 2929.14 of the Revised Code as amended by H.B. 63, S.B. 1, S.B. 20, and S.B. 201, all of the 132nd General Assembly. Section 2937.23 of the Revised Code as amended by both H.B. 202 and S.B. 142 of the 123rd General Assembly. 